We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1: Barrel - Part 1
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
                                      Comic #1 (September 30, 2005)Next >>|
Barrel - Part 1

Title text: Don't we all.
Explanation[edit]
The comic shows a young boy floating in a barrel in an ocean that doesn't have a visible end. It comments on the unlikely optimism and perhaps naïveté people sometimes display. The boy is completely lost and seems hopelessly alone, without any plan or control of the situation. Yet, rather than afraid or worried, he is instead quietly curious: "I wonder where I'll float next?" Although not necessarily the situation in this comic, this is a behavior people often exhibit when there is nothing they can do about a problematic situation for a long time; they may have given up hope or developed a cavalier attitude as a coping mechanism.
The title text expands on the philosophical content, with the boy representing the average human being: wandering through life with no real plan, quietly optimistic, always opportunistic and clueless as to what the future may hold.
The isolation of the boy may also represent the way in which we often feel lost through life, never knowing quite where we are, believing that there is no one to whom to turn. This comic could also reflect on Randall's feelings towards creating xkcd in the first place; unsure of what direction the web comic would turn towards, but hopeful that it would eventually become the popular web comic that we know today.
This is the first in a six-part series of comics whose parts were randomly published during the first several dozen strips. The series features a character that is not consistent with what would quickly become the xkcd stick figure style.
The full series can be found here. They are listed below in the order Randall chose for the short story above:
1: Barrel - Part 1
20: Ferret
11: Barrel - Part 2
22: Barrel - Part 3
25: Barrel - Part 4
31: Barrel - Part 5
After Randall released the full The Boy and his Barrel story on xkcd, it has been clear that the original Ferret story should also be included as part of the barrel series.
In 1110: Click and Drag there is a reference to this comic at 1 North, 48 East.
Transcript[edit]
[A boy sits in a barrel which is floating in an ocean.]
Boy: i wonder where i'll float next?
[A smaller frame with a zoom out of the boy in the barrel seen from afar. The barrel drifts into the distance. Nothing else can be seen.]
Trivia[edit]
This was the 5th comic originally posted to LiveJournal.
The previous comic was 2: Petit Trees (sketch).
The next was 24: Godel, Escher, Kurt Halsey.
The original title was "Barrel".
Original Randall quote: "He's fairly upbeat about the situation!"
This was one of the thirteen first comics posted to LiveJournal within 12 minutes on Friday September 30, 2005.
This comic was posted on xkcd when the web site opened on Sunday the 1st of January 2006.
It was posted along with all 41 comics posted before that on LiveJournal as well as a few others.
The latter explaining why the numbers of these 41 LiveJournal comics ranges from 1-44.
This is the first of the original drawings that was not drawn on checkered paper.
A more realistic description of the behavior of a barrel in water is here: Wired Science: Should Dwarves Stand Up in Floating Barrels?

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Doesn't his big interactive piece (#1110) refer to this one? -- 58.37.35.32 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
It does. There's a note somewhere in that explanation page referring back to this page. Davidy22[talk] 09:28, 2 December 2012 (UTC)
This comic under my interpretation is that like the kid in the barrel his mind was wandering at the time of his drawing of the comic and it reprsents his wandering mind as he may be bored and it is in the middle of nowhere but at the same time it is somewhere. but its waiting to get someplace (an island?)
--TheWeatherMan (talk) 13:57, 23 January 2013 (UTC)TheWeatherMan
when ever I feel isolated from society, I like to contemplate the ladders I could build for them to see things from my perspective. We will never manage to teach kids how to exist in chaos, we need to outsource our thinking, share ideas, to see new options for each of the impossible answers. Sic-if is here to stay, because it's the only hint we will get of the perfection they want us to achieve. Anything less then the total perfection is unsustainable. - 98.211.199.84 14:22, 3 March 2013 (UTC)
It's been over five years, so I think I should be that one annoying person who breaks unspoken streaks: If an endless ocean were a representation of life, I'd be the one who's fasioned myself an oar (or I can just use my hands to paddle if I can't get an oar). I then tell the floating people around me, "May the waves bring you luck." I proceed to go toward a location on the horizon that appears arbitrary but is actually something really cool, and then I greet all the other people who have chosen to go here also or were brought by fate/the sea (basically synonymous). Finally, I do cool things. Anyway, this comments section has been very inactive. No purpose, just wanted to motivate y'all to set goals for yourself and let you know that good things will happen if you do. For now, though, it's night, and the others are asleep in their barrels. Good night and why did I write this 108.162.215.70 07:01, 10 June 2018 (UTC)
Working theory: this IS Beret Guy. This is I think years before his first appearance, and Beret Guy is apparently younger than anyone else who isn't explicitly a child. So this is him. The youngest form of the one who had nothing but wonder...
  That DOES kind of make sense. The part where he rides the winged ferret is just the kind of weird Beret Guy thing that Beret Guy does. :)
-ThePineapple11
Categories: All comicsComics from 2005Comics from SeptemberFriday comicsComics posted on livejournalFirst day on LiveJournalFirst day on xkcdBarrelComics sharing namePhilosophyComics with lowercase text