We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
98: Fall Apart
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 98)
|<< PrevComic #98 (May 5, 2006)Next >>|
Fall Apart

Title text: #pugglewumper Tashari got me some ink pens! I've been experimenting with them.
Explanation[edit]
Despite Randall being enthusiastic about receiving ink pens, his first experiment with them has resulted in a rather bleak comic.
Instead of multiple panels, the entire comic is a single drawing, with an apparent passage of time as we travel down the page. The frame, which represents the world of the characters, gradually disintegrates and leaves them falling helplessly. At the top, we see some people standing alone, apparently happy enough, and a couple. As we descend the page, we see examples of a couple split by a narrow chasm, someone huddled isolated and alone on their own world fragment, a couple desperately trying to hang on to each other, and a single figure falling chaotically and without control.
The comic seems to be expressing what it feels like to someone when a relationship breaks up — their world falls apart, and one of the implications is that the process cannot easily be reversed. In short, it is catastrophic.
The identity of '#pugglewumper Tashari,' the supplier of the pens, is not known. Judging by the use of the hash sign, it is someone with whom Randall communicates in IRC. In fact, 'pugglewump' appears to be an IRC channel. Although hashtags later came to be strongly associated with Twitter, this was not true at the time the comic was drawn.
Transcript[edit]
[Various people struggle as the comic disintegrates. Toward the top, people are standing calmly, some holding hands. As the parts of the comic break apart, people try to reach for each other, hold parts together, or curl up into a ball. By the bottom, a Cueball is falling, surrounded by pieces of the comic.]

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Randall must have been eaten some mushrooms right before doing this one.--Dgbrt (talk) 21:53, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
Or perhaps he was drawing some thick, inky lines and realized that they looked like cracks, and he then extended the synecdoche. 108.162.219.58 18:21, 24 January 2014 (UTC)
This website contains a reference to the pugglewump IRC channel. 108.162.219.58 23:30, 24 January 2014 (UTC)
Anyone else see a resemblance to the end of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade? In particular the one figure crouching on the left over a falling woman looks like Indy and Elsa. ~~ 172.68.58.59 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from MayFriday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganRomanceMultiple Cueballs