We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
203: Hallucinations
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 203)
|<< PrevComic #203 (December 29, 2006)Next >>|
Hallucinations

Title text: And the possibility of lucid dreaming just makes it that much more fascinating.
Explanation[edit]
Cueball on the right is talking to his (Cueball-like) friend about dreaming but using words and phrases to make dreaming sound much more dramatic than we usually think that it is. However, the description is technically correct.
Randall is using the comic to make a point about how we think dreaming is so normal, but if we actually realize what's happening, dreaming is very strange:
go comatose for a few hours = sleep for a few hours
hallucinate vividly = dream
suffer amnesia about the whole experience = forget the dream
The character on the left takes this as though the experience is normal. Which it indeed is, but that is why Randall has the caption above the guys: Sometimes it seems bizarre to me that we take dreaming in stride.
The title text is about lucid dreaming, where the dreamer is aware that they are dreaming. This is even more fascinating to Randall. He uses this type of dream in 269: TCMP.
Transcript[edit]
[Two Cueball-like guys are talking. Above them is the following caption:]
Sometimes it seems bizarre to me that we take dreaming in stride.
Friend: Are you coming to dinner?
Cueball: Yeah, but first I'm gonna go comatose for a few hours, hallucinate vividly, and then maybe suffer amnesia about the whole experience.
Friend: Okay, Cool.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N,N-Dimethyltryptamine is a brain chemical that apparently allows people to have vivid hallucinations. Pallas (talk) 05:49, 17 October 2014 (UTC)
Should the paragraph on lucid dreaming note that those dreams are more frequently remembered? 108.162.216.209 00:20, 21 October 2014 (UTC)
There is a community portal discussion of what to call Cueball and what to do in case with more than one Cueball. I have added this comic to the new Category:Multiple Cueballs. Since there is clearly one Cueball that is the protagonist and do the "talking" he should probably be listed as Cueball. Just made a note that the other guy also looks like Cueball --Kynde (talk) 19:50, 7 June 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from DecemberFriday comicsComics featuring CueballMultiple CueballsDreams