We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
119: Worst Band Name Ever
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 119)
|<< PrevComic #119 (June 23, 2006)Next >>|
Worst Band Name Ever

Title text: You can just see his dejection as he realizes he's the lead guitar in 'Hedgeclipper'
Explanation[edit]
A hedge clipper or hedge trimmer is a gardening tool for trimming hedges or bushes. The implication is that motor driven hedge trimmers produce a bad, loud sound; maybe the sound of the band is even worse.
The title text suggests that they (or at least the lead guitarist) previously did not know their band's name. As he bemoans his apparent inability to choose a good band name, he probably sees the name 'Hedgeclipper' as the reason why the band has no audience.
Transcript[edit]
It's probably a good thing that I never get to pick band names.
[A stage with banner overhead reading: OPENING TONIGHT! HEDGECLIPPER]
[On the stage are three guys with a bass, guitar, drum kit, and strange haircuts. On the kick drum is a picture of a hedge clipper.]
Lead Guitarist: Maaan...

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
What about hitchslapper? Davidy²²[talk] 11:01, 8 March 2013 (UTC)
What indicates there is no audience? "...the name 'Hedgeclipper' as the reason why the band has no audience..." I read it as the other members or a promoter/manager decided on a band name for a battle-of-the-bands, open mic, or other venue with multiple acts, and told the announcer, but an audience might still be there. Tryc (talk) 13:04, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
The thing is that, if they end up being any good, then whatever their name it'll be forever associated with a successful band. I mean The Beatles is such a kitsh name, right? What on Earth is U2 supposed to mean (to anyone not familiar with the plane type, or the various other vehicles and objects given that name), and what made it "the name that they disliked the least"? Arctic Monkeys? Silly name. The Who? Who? (And surely more grammatically The Whom!) Are The Beach Boys lifeguards? Isn't Blondie just what we call that fair-haired lass in the office? And you can forget right now about The Buzzcocks and The Sex Pistols, I think you just wandered into the wrong store... 178.98.31.27 05:06, 23 June 2013 (UTC)
Do you not realise that "U2" sounds like "you too" or maybe "you two"? XD 172.69.79.171 (talk) 12:00, 2 August 2022 (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
I'm disappointed to see that no one has a decent explanation of this strip. If the implication is that electric hedgeclippers make bad sounds, why is there a pair of manual hedgeclippers on the bass drum? Why is the name singular? I'm forced to conclude that this is Randall’s equivalent of The Far Side's "Cow Tools" but not as funny. 172.68.118.8 18:48, 12 December 2022 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from JuneFriday comicsMusic