We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
65: Banter
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 65)
|<< PrevComic #65 (February 17, 2006)Next >>|
Banter

Title text: This was an actual mock conversation between me and a friend at TGIF. The waitress walked up around panel 5 and was somewhat put off.
Explanation[edit]
Two guys are trash-talking each other with homophobic comments and your mom jokes. It goes somewhat astray and becomes awkward when the first guy makes a pass at the second guy and is rejected.
Part of the element of the humor in this comic stems from a common assertion that the most-homophobic of men are the most likely to be a closeted homosexual. Another element is the incredible awkwardness of the end conversation.
Fag, ass pirate, fudge packer, and cock jockey are all insults for a homosexual man. Cum dumpster can apply to both men and women (usually conveying sluttiness).
Randall's title text, that he mock-held this conversation with a friend in a TGIF restaurant, indicates how awkward this would be in real life. Even the waitress, a bystander, is put off by it.
Transcript[edit]
[Two Cueball like characters have a discussion. They are drawn the same in all eight panels.]
Guy: Man, she's hot
Friend: Whatever, you are so gay.
Guy: C'mon, everyone knows you're the gay one.
Friend: Hey, your mom's pretty masculine, but sleeping with her doesn't make me gay.
Guy: Fag.
Friend: Ass pirate.
Guy: Fudge packer
Friend: Cock jockey
Guy: Cum dumpster.
[Beat panel.]
Guy: Okay, seriously, are you gay? Because if you've been holding out on me, we're missing out.
Friend: No, it's cool.
Guy: OK, me neither.
[Beat panel.]
[Beat panel.]

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
There is a community portal discussion of what to call Cueball and what to do in case with more than one Cueball. I have added this comic to the new Category:Multiple Cueballs. In this case there is no reason to call one Cueball and the other friend. It could easily be the other way. So I have changed to remove Cueball--Kynde (talk) 13:34, 15 March 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from FebruaryFriday comicsComics featuring CueballYour MomMultiple CueballsHomosexualitySocial interactionsComics with lowercase text