We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
110: Clark Gable
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 110)
|<< PrevComic #110 (June 2, 2006)Next >>|
Clark Gable

Title text: Frankly, my dear, I don't give a BITCH ASS SHIT FUCK DAMN
Explanation[edit]
"Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn" is the signature catchphrase from the 1939 movie Gone With The Wind, which starred Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh. The phrase is spoken by Gable's character Rhett Butler as his last line, in answer to Scarlett O'Hara (Leigh) asking "Where shall I go? What shall I do?" The response indicates that Butler is no longer interested in O'Hara. This lack of interest, and the mention of the word "damn," which was considered profanity at the time of releasing the film, led to the line being voted the #1 movie line of all time in 1995's American Film Institute ranking.
Randall suggests that the line as written was not supposed to contain profanity, but the actor, Gable, inserted it, due to having Tourette's Syndrome, which is a neurological condition that is stereotypically characterized by bouts of random, uncontrollable cursing (and repetition of phrases or words).
The title text contains a more stereotypical Tourette's Syndrome outburst of several profanities in a row shouted mid-sentence.
Transcript[edit]
[Famous image of Gone with the Wind with Rhett Butler (Clark Gable) kissing Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh).]
The line was actually supposed to be "Frankly, my dear, I couldn't care less." It's just that Clark Gable had Tourette's.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Rikthoff (talk) The issue date is definately off, as the file doesn't have an issue date. Can anyone fix?
- Listed as 2006-06-02 as per https://xkcd.com/archive/ 172.68.141.28 09:18, 2 July 2019 (UTC)
Gable did not have Tourette’s syndrome
It's a joke ._. Beanie (talk) 14:21, 9 December 2020 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from JuneFriday comicsLanguageRomanceComics featuring real people