We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
2747: Presents for Biologists
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 2747)
|<< PrevComic #2747 (March 8, 2023)Next >>|
Presents for Biologists

Title text: A lot of these are actually non-venomous, but I can see which species you mistook them for. If you pause the crane for a sec I can give you some ID pointers for next time!
Explanation[edit]
In this strip, Black Hat is a supervillain subjecting 'James Bond' (drawn as Hairy) to a death trap, similar to 123: Centrifugal Force (presumably Bond managed to escape in that instance).
This time, however, Black Hat also has another victim, Science Girl, apparently playing the role of a Bond Girl (who were sometimes scientists in the stories) being subjected to the same device – a pit full of snakes, into which the victims are slowly lowered (upside-down and suspended by just one ankle) entirely at the whim or mercy of the antagonist.
While Bond voices typical defiance at Black Hat's scheme, Science Girl instead gushes over the sight of an unfamiliar snake species within the pit, asking Black Hat to lower her faster before that creature either escapes (there seemingly being very little to prevent any snake escaping the pit) or just moves to the other end of the pit.
The caption reveals that Science Girl is a biologist. For her, the contents of this death trap would be happily considered a suitable present or experience gift, and apparently even the dire circumstances don't dampen the experience sufficiently to reduce her interest.
The caption also mentions that there is a surprising amount of overlap between what would be "good presents for biologists" (like the ornithologist, James Bond?) and "things villains want to do to James Bond". Although we can only guess what other activities Randall is thinking of, shark tanks could be one of them, or maybe the crabs in Dr. No, which turned out not to be carnivorous and which Honey found "good company".
The title text explains how Science Girl has expertly spotted that the supervillain included some less dangerous snakes, probably in error. Ever the professional, she suggests the possibility of her advice to help him avoid these errors in the future and increase the deadliness of his scheme. She would need a short stay of execution to do so, but is apparently not particularly fazed by how things end up immediately afterwards.
Transcript[edit]
[James Bond, drawn as Hairy, and Science Girl are hanging upside down from ropes attached to one of their ankles. Underneath them is a pit with many snakes. Science Girl is pointing down, while Black Hat to the left is operating a lever. Bond is yelling at Black Hat, indicated by lines emanating from his head. Science Girl is also yelling, but that is in the direction of the snakes beneath them. There seems to be many snakes in the pit, at least eight heads can be seen, and there are also snakes whose heads are not visible. At least six snakes are partly outside the pit. They have different patters of spots and shades and stripes.]
Bond: You won't get away with this!
Science Girl: Ooh! Ooh! That one is a new species for me!
Science Girl: Hey, can you lower me faster? It's getting away!
[Caption below the panel:]
There's a surprising amount of overlap between "Good presents for biologists" and "Things villains want to do to James Bond."

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Is it really a snake? --Purah126 (talk) 02:13, 9 March 2023 (UTC)
How sure are you that this is not Miss Lenhart? I mean, she's presenting as a scientist. Nitpicking (talk) 03:27, 9 March 2023 (UTC)
She's stolen her attitude from John Galt, who tells the bad guys' flunky how to repair the failing torture machine. 172.71.22.53 12:41, 9 March 2023 (UTC)
Looking at the current edit, I now agree that she is Science Girl. She has the little braids and all. Nitpicking (talk) 01:12, 10 March 2023 (UTC)
Would the biologists be less interested in the shark tank if the sharks were equipped with frikkin' lasers, or would they have enough general interest in science that it would increase their enjoyment?172.70.86.32 17:27, 9 March 2023 (UTC)
That's a pretty lazy job of attaching the victims to the ropes. If they are sufficiently physically fit, its possible to bend up at the waist, grab the rope, and climb up out of harm's way / release their foot and swing off to the side. These Are Not The Comments You Are Looking For (talk) 00:37, 13 March 2023 (UTC)
They won't be able to release their foot, though, because it's tied with an ominknot.172.70.90.252 11:15, 13 March 2023 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2023Comics from MarchWednesday comicsComics featuring Black HatComics featuring HairyComics featuring Science GirlBiologyAnimalsFiction