We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1018: Good Cop, Dadaist Cop
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 1018)
|<< PrevComic #1018 (February 17, 2012)Next >>|
Good Cop, Dadaist Cop

Title text: NOW INVENT AN IMPOSSIBLE-TO-TRANSLATE LANGUAGE AND USE IT TO TELL US WHERE THE MONEY IS.
Explanation[edit]
This comic is a play on the well known Good Cop/Bad Cop (where one interrogator is nice and friendly and the other is mean and intimidating) police interrogation strategy and the artistic movement Dadaism.
Dadaism is an artistic movement which by its definition is irrational. The movement embraces the free flow of unreasoned thought and prizes nonsense and rejection of established norms. As such, the entire concept of "Good Cop, Dadaist Cop" could be considered a dadaist concept in itself.
"Good Cop/Bad Cop" is a psychological tactic that may be employed during joint questioning or interrogation. The interrogators isolate the suspect, then one of the interrogators acts aggressively and threatens the suspect (the "bad cop") and the other acts friendly and helpful in comparison, offering the suspect reassurance and protection from the bad cop if they co-operate (the "good cop"). If successful, it deceives the suspect into believing they must choose to trust one of the interrogators and the suspect chooses to co-operate with the good cop, or merely complies out of fear of the bad cop.
The comic starts with the "Good Cop", the male police officer, and the "Dadaist Cop", Ponytail, working out their plan to interrogate the suspect, Hairy. After the Good Cop makes a few statements, intended to build trust with Hairy, and leaves to get coffee, Ponytail enters the interrogation and starts asking Hairy absurd questions. Hairy quickly becomes agitated, and questions what is wrong with Ponytail. Ponytail responds "What's wrong with ART?", which could suggest she believes the interrogation is artwork and should not be questioned. On the other hand, actual responses would break the Dadaism pattern.
Good Cop/Bad Cop hinges on the suspect's fear and distrust of the intentions of the bad cop; thankfully for the police, Ponytail's "Dadaist Cop" seems to be a successful Bad Cop too, judging by the suspect's fear of her irrational, unpredictable, and potential crazy behavior (not to mention loud and aggressive mannerisms).
The title text builds on the joke as by asking a suspect to give the whereabouts of the money in a dadaist manner, which would be completely useless in finding it. Such a statement could be used as a confession though.
Irrationality[edit]
"See this? It's Mark Zuckerberg's mortgage. So why is it written in Church Latin?"
Mark Zuckerberg (the co-founder of Facebook) was renting in 2011 and therefore did not have a mortgage.
Even if Mark Zuckerberg had bought a property, it is unlikely (given his financial status) that he would have to take out a mortgage.
Modern mortgages are typically written in the local vernacular; it would be very strange for one to be written in a dead language like Church Latin.
"WHY ARE MY BONES SO SMALL?" "What's wrong with ART?"
These are non sequiturs and therefore have no place in an investigation.
"NOW INVENT AN IMPOSSIBLE-TO-TRANSLATE LANGUAGE AND USE IT TO TELL US WHERE THE MONEY IS." (title text)
The location of the money cannot be conveyed to Ponytail if the information were expressed in a newly invented language that cannot be translated, and therefore would be useless to an investigation.
Transcript[edit]
[Two police officers, a bald male and a Ponytail, both wearing peaked caps with white emblems, are standing in front of a window in a wall, with an electric socket in the bottom right corner. They look through the window into an interrogation chamber holding the handcuffed suspect Hairy, who is sitting on a chair. A lamp with the bulb beneath the shade hangs over Hairy. The lamp is lit as shown by lines indicating the lamp shines light.]
Male officer: All right, let's try Good Cop, Dadaist Cop.
[The male police officer is seated in front of Hairy on another chair holding a hand with palm up in front of him. Hairy has his cuffed hands in his lap and his hair is in disarray.]
Male officer: Look, you're a good guy. We can work this out. Hey, lemme get us some coffee.
[In a slim frame-less panel the male officer leaves and Ponytail enters carrying a rolled up paper in her hand.]
[Ponytail walks in holding the folded out paper out in one hand while pointing at it with the other hand. It is a document of indeterminate contents, but there are both text and figures on it. She threatens Hairy who pulls his leg up under him and hold his cuffed hand up in front of him leaning back away from her while three drops of sweat fly of the top of his head.]
Ponytail: See this? It's Mark Zuckerberg's mortgage.
Ponytail: So why is it written in Church Latin?
[Ponytail physically rattles Hairy's head holding it in both hands, lines around his heads and below her elbow show the movement. Hairy has his hands straight in front of him.]
Ponytail: WHY ARE MY BONES SO SMALL?
Hairy: What's WRONG with you?!
Ponytail: What's wrong with ART?

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
A comment from the blog that is quite on and off (you'll get the joke) the topic:
I took a class in college, in French, and we studied (insofar as one can) dadaism, surrealism, and existentialism.
One day, the girl next to me raised her hand and started out, “This is off the subject, but..”… Professor La Charité interrupted immediately, with, “It’s *never* off the subject. Continue.”
We all felt we learned something that day. Giraffe. - E
Hope that explains some things. lcarsos (talk) 17:40, 20 August 2012 (UTC)
Explanation
I think the above explanation is lacking. What's bones got to do with it? How about the language stuff? AND A Mexican bandit robbed a bank. The sheriff and his bilingual deputy captured him, and the sheriff, who couldn't speak Spanish, asked him where he'd hidden the money. "No se nada," said the bandit. The sheriff put a gun to the bandit's head and said to his deputy: "Tell him, if he doesn't tell us where the money is, I'll blow his brains out." Upon receiving the translation, the bandit became very animated. "Ya me acuerdo! Tienen que caminar tres cuadradas hasta ese gran arbol. Debajo del arbol, alli esta el dinero." The sheriff leaned forward. "Yeah? Well..?" The deputy replied: "He says he wants to die like a man." 122.61.61.161 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
It's Dadaism. It means unrelated random stuff. AND nice story =) 108.162.212.206 19:26, 29 January 2014 (UTC)
What's incomplete about this? 0100011101100001011011010110010101011010011011110110111001100101 (talk page) 05:37, 2 August 2014 (UTC)
If you twisted my arm, I'd have to guess that my phone is ringing off the salmon. That's all I can remember at this indication, though. -- Brettpeirce (talk) 11:48, 13 August 2014 (UTC)
This is why we can't have giraffes. 172.68.10.83 09:40, 4 September 2016 (UTC)
Has Mark Zuckerberg ever HAD a mortgage?108.162.219.164, 27 Dec 1014

Well interesting fact about ponytail then, her bones are small! --Dalonacueball (talk) 12:48, 24 March 2015 (UTC) 13:35 3/24/2015
The implication, in the explanation text, that wealthy individuals, such as Zukerberg, wouldn't take a mortgage is flawed. Wealthy individuals usually do take out mortgages because they have the ability to generate a higher rate of return from the freed capital than the cost of the interest on the mortgage. Mountain Hikes (talk) 22:17, 29 January 2016 (UTC)
Would the gibberish produced in response to the title text actually count as a valid confession? Even assuming the suspect was trying to do what was asked, which I don’t think is a legally valid assumption, they could be saying “I don’t know; I didn’t take it!”. --162.158.255.142 18:59, 30 December 2018 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2012Comics from FebruaryFriday comicsComics featuring PonytailComics featuring Hairy