We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
414: Mistranslations
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 414)
|<< PrevComic #414 (April 23, 2008)Next >>|
Mistranslations

Title text: Oh, I think this word might mean 'Crisco'!
Explanation[edit]
The Kama Sutra is a well-known work on human sexual behavior originally written in the language Sanskrit, in India sometime between 400 BCE and 200 CE. It's not exclusively a "sex manual," as it also contains a guide to virtuous and gracious living, but in the Western world, it's primarily thought of as a manual of exotic sex positions.
Given that the Kama Sutra was written almost 2,000 years ago, it's doubtful that it has any references whatsoever to a skateboard ramp, but Cueball and Megan enjoy their badly-translated version of the Kama Sutra so much that they refuse to change it.
The title text refers to Crisco, a brand of shortening that is used in baking, as well as a sexual lubricant. It has been mentioned before in 330: Indecision and later in 557: Students.
Transcript[edit]
[A bed sits on the ground in the middle of the frame. At the left of the frame, Cueball stands atop a skateboard jump ramp twice his height, one foot on the back of a skateboard poised over the coping. At the bottom of the ramp is a small kicker ramp, which will launch him over the bed. Megan, to the right of the frame, stands on the roof of a house grasping a rope, which is affixed directly over the bed. They are both poised to begin their motion.]
Our copy of the Kama Sutra has a couple mistranslations.
Which we refuse to fix.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
My copy of the Kama Sutra used to be next to my copy of the Bible. Then I decided to get rid of that disgusting book, now I don't have a Bible anymore. -- The Cat Lady (talk) 22:13, 14 August 2021 (UTC)
...all jokes aside, I do wonder what's about to happen. Nafedalbi (talk) 18:57, 15 April 2022 (UTC)Nafedalbi
WhatDoWeDoNow (talk) 03:57, 20 March 2023 (UTC)
Why did you post nothing but signature? Omg omg omg Бельков (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~) (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2008Comics from AprilWednesday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganSex