We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
328: Eggs
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 328)
|<< PrevComic #328 (October 12, 2007)Next >>|
Eggs

Title text: Oh, yeah, we get tons of them at these casual sex bars.
Explanation[edit]
At a bar, Cueball uses what appears to be a common cheesy pick-up line: "So, how do you like your eggs in the morning?" — implying that he will be the one cooking them, because they will still be together in the morning, after they spent the night having sex.
For women who do not appreciate such paltry attempts at soliciting sexual intercourse, a sardonic counter-response to the pick-up line is "unfertilized," which switches the meaning of "eggs" from chicken eggs to female gametes, expressing the sentiment that they do not wish to have sex. However, in this scenario, it turns out Cueball is not actually trying to solicit sex from Megan at all, but is just interested in setting up jokes. Megan's desire for actual casual sex therefore subverts his plan for comedy. He politely declines her offer and tries instead with a different joke using the classic snowclone priest and rabbi setup.
The title text continues the conversation, where Megan reveals that the bar is actually a "casual sex bar" and further suggests that priests and rabbis do in fact come to the bar frequently. This is in contrast to real life, where women in bars are generally not interested in casual sex,[citation needed] and such bars would probably not be frequented by religious leaders.
Transcript[edit]
[Megan sits at a bar; Beret Guy cleans a glass from behind the counter. Cueball approaches.]
Cueball: So, how do you like your eggs in the morning?
[Closeup on Megan.]
Megan: Ooh, sunny side up.
Cueball [off-panel]: Oh. Huh.
[Wide shot with Beret Guy, Megan, and Cueball again.]
Megan: Is that a problem?
Cueball: Well, it's just that I was trying to set you up for the "unfertilized" line.
[Only Megan and Cueball are shown, with Cueball standing farther away from Megan.]
Megan: Ah. Bad timing; I'm actually looking for casual sex.
Megan: ...Interested?
Cueball: I'd love to, but I've got like 20 more jokes to set up tonight. Hey, have you seen a priest and a rabbi?

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Megan is at a hotel bar and Cueball (the waiter) is asking her a question on her breakfast next morning. After that this comic looks much more like a Monty Python or Faulty Towers skit. But if that is true we need a reference.
BTW: Please follow all instructions here Help:How to add a new comic explanation when creating a new page.--Dgbrt (talk) 15:16, 9 June 2013 (UTC)

My alternate take on the Title-Text is that the person looking for a priest and a rabbi is being (sarcastically? ...or totally not sarcastically?) told that they're indeed quite common in Singles Bars. 178.98.31.27 15:18, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
That's my take as well Gman314 (talk) 05:45, 19 August 2013 (UTC)
Yet a third reading of the title text is the sarcasm that they get priests and rabbis looking for casual sex in that bar. 152.119.255.250 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Doesn't the beret guy signify anything? According to my interpretation, he signified the futility of Cueball insisting on using traditional pickup lines when both of them wanted the same thing.108.162.222.116 18:36, 17 March 2015 (UTC)
I'm pretty sure he's the bartender, set there to identify the locale as a pub. 108.162.219.250 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
What joke is Randall referring to when he mention the priest and the rabbi? Never heard any before.172.69.63.13 20:07, 14 August 2019 (UTC)
I Do not believe it is a specific joke, but a common setup for a joke, such as "a priest, a rabbi and an atheist walk into a bar.", just like many other constellations of people. However the different kinds of religious people tend to be a stereotypic setup. The jokes that follow after range from harmless clean jokes, to straight up blasphemy (from the specific religions viewpoint). --Lupo (talk) 09:16, 15 August 2019 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from OctoberFriday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateComics featuring Beret GuyComics featuring MeganComics featuring CueballSexLanguageFood