We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
334: Wasteland
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 334)
|<< PrevComic #334 (October 26, 2007)Next >>|
Wasteland

Title text: You make forgetting look so easy.
Explanation[edit]
At the beginning of the comic, Cueball is wandering around in a barren area, supposedly a desert, thinking about his ex-partner, in which he, at first, appears to be fondly remembering them, but the last two boxes explain that he is trying to take a long walk to forget them, and is obviously not very good at it.
The title text implies that his ex-partner had easily forgotten him, and he wishes that he could forget more easily. It's also possible that he means that it's so hard to forget them that forgetting anything else is simple in comparison to it.
There is a similar twist in comics 71: In the Trees and 1042: Never.
Note: When Cueball mentions walking 1000 miles, he may be exaggerating, as, due to his lack of hiking/traveling gear, most likely has only walked a hundred or so, either that, or the story is similar in nature, or even in the same universe, as comic 505. Though this might also be a nod to a What If question about how long it would take for two immortal people to find each other on a barren planet.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball is walking through a wasteland talking to himself.]
Cueball: I am alone in this wasteland, a thousand miles from you.
Cueball: But I haven't forgotten the feel of your skin, your mischievous smile.
Cueball: You'd think a thousand miles would be enough.
Cueball: I guess I'll keep walking.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Isn't the meaning of the title text that it's so difficult to forget her that forgetting anything else is easy in comparison? -- Bonob (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Possibly? Or maybe she is the one who forgot that he existed in a heartbeat, making forgetting someone "look so easy"Viperzer0 (talk) 18:02, 20 April 2018 (UTC)
The headline "Wasteland" may also refer to the state of the life of the speaker, wasting away. Mountain Hikes (talk) 04:30, 7 October 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from OctoberFriday comicsComics featuring CueballComics with colorRomance