We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
464: RBA
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 464)
|<< PrevComic #464 (August 18, 2008)Next >>|
RBA

Title text: This is a story all about how I started drinking.
Explanation[edit]
A Bel-Air is an internet meme where a poster on a message board starts a post on a serious topic, but partway through the post switches to reciting the lyrics to the opening theme song of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, a 1990s sitcom starring Will Smith (previously known in his rapping career as the "Fresh Prince") as a street-smart teenager from West Philadelphia who has been sent to live with his affluent and stuffy Aunt and Uncle in Bel Air, Los Angeles by his mother as a consequence of a single altercation with a couple of no-good guys who were making trouble in his previous neighbourhood.
Megan in the comic reverses the traditional arrangement by starting the conversation with a recitation of the lyrics to said theme song, and then switching partway through to a very serious discussion of the status of their relationship culminating in a break-up.
The lyrics go like this:
Now this is the story all about how
My life got flipped, turned upside down
And I'd like to take a minute just sit right there
I'll tell you how I became the prince of a town called Bel-air
The title RBA is an initialism for Reverse Bel-Air.
The title text is also an RBA, but one that diverges from the song lyrics much more quickly. It's a play on the phrase "started drinking." This phrase usually refers to someone becoming an alcoholic (in this case, it would be because of the break-up), but in this case refers to the actual fact that Cueball had just started drinking (a glass of water) when Megan started talking to him.
A similar (though less serious) play on the Bel-Air meme was later used in 1059: Bel-Air.
Transcript[edit]
[Megan walks up to Cueball pouring himself a drink.]
Megan: Now, this is a story all about how
Megan: My life got flipped turned upside down
Megan: And I'd like to take a minute
Megan: Just sit right there
Megan: I'll tell you how I became uncertain about our relationship. I think you just like having a girlfriend, it doesn't matter who.
Megan: I think we should break up.
The reverse Bel-Air only works once, so make it something unforgettable.
[Cut to a dropped glass, the drink spilled on the ground.]
Cueball: ...wait, seriously?
Megan: Yeah.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I can't find any reference for the title "RBA". What does it mean?--Dgbrt (talk) 16:32, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
Reverse Bel-Air 83.186.30.214 22:00, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
Thanks, we should explain that. Not all people here are from the US, like me.--Dgbrt (talk) 22:16, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
Please enter discussions here.--Dgbrt (talk) 21:06, 8 December 2013 (UTC)
OK, but why have they disappeared off stage? And why is the cup dropped? -- Psb777 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
When you're shocked, you drop things. Mikemk (talk)
Hm, I'm not sure that's water. It looks like he poured it out of a bottle of some sort in the first panel. Maybe it's juice?172.69.62.124 17:42, 26 May 2020 (UTC)
The cup didn’t break, so it’s probably a plastic one. If it was glass it would have shattered. He poured it out of a bottle, so it’s probably alcohol or juice. The title text mentions drinking, so I would guess alcohol.
Categories: All comicsComics from 2008Comics from AugustMonday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganSongsFiction