We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
219: Blanket Fort
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 219)
|<< PrevComic #219 (February 5, 2007)Next >>|
Blanket Fort

Title text: Also, we have a fort out in the woods where we stashed that hooker's body.
Explanation[edit]
In an apparent continuation of comic 150: Grownups, Megan is showing off a blanket fort to her friend Ponytail. Ponytail answers that Megan's childishness stems from a fear of growing up.
Megan responds that she's fine with growing up. She sees her behavior as a mature realization that some of the things she enjoyed as a child are still enjoyable. When pressed for evidence that she has in any way become an "adult," it is revealed that her boyfriend is inside the blanket fort. He has not spoken because he fears to be found by them when "not exactly dressed," thus implying that "adult" activities had been going on in the fort.
The title text provides another example of this: They built a fort in the woods, another type of fort that a kid would love to have, but then used it to hide a body. This implies that they killed someone, which is not usually something associated with children.[citation needed] A hooker is also more formally known as a prostitute, which is also not usually something associated with children.[citation needed]
Transcript[edit]
[Megan and Ponytail are talking with each other. There is a fort made of cushions and blankets on the left.]
Megan: Like my fort? It uses every blanket and cushion in the apartment.
Ponytail: Okay, no offense, but this is like that ball pit you made -- Cute, but don't you worry you're clinging to childhood games because you're afraid of change?
Megan: No. I'm happy to grow up. But I won't pretend fun things aren't still fun out of fear of looking silly.
Ponytail: But you're 24 and building blanket forts. How have you changed? What's adult about that?
Megan: Well, there's my boyfriend curled up in the back.
Ponytail: ...Ah.
Boyfriend [from inside the fort]: Excuse my shyness. I'm not exactly dressed.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I see no tree in the title text, how does one know that the fort in the woods was a tree fort? 74.125.183.195 20:10, 18 September 2013 (UTC)
You don't see the woods because it's full of trees... Or vice versa...--Dgbrt (talk) 23:01, 18 September 2013 (UTC)
Where should "sex blanket fort" be on the sketchiness scale? 93.73.186.104 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
alright who put that "citation needed" in there? cheeky shit... 173.245.56.205 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from FebruaryMonday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateComics featuring PonytailComics featuring MeganSex