We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
714: Porn For Women
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 714)
|<< PrevComic #714 (March 15, 2010)Next >>|
Porn For Women

Title text: Yes, there are a lot of longing looks across the bridge of Galactica first, but that's beside the point!
Explanation[edit]
Porn for Women is a popular illustrated humor book that features exactly what the comic says.
There is an opinion that women especially dislike blunt porn that objectifies the people involved in the intercourse. The authors of the book follows this line, presenting no sex but several images of extremely attractive men performing household chores. Megan objects to this, stating that her porn contains sex.
Galactica is the ship from the show Battlestar Galactica. Megan likely has a romantic attraction to some of the characters on the show, possibly involving "shipping" fanfiction.
Transcript[edit]
[Megan sits at a desk, typing on a computer with a fairly large flat-panel display.]
Megan: To the authors of Porn for Women:
Your book features pictures of hot, clothed guys cooking, doing laundry and vacuuming.
[Megan continues typing.]
Megan: The idea seems to be that my deepest fantasies, like the rest of my life, likely revolve around housework.
[Megan continues typing.]
Megan: So I wanted to write in to clarify: in my porn,
[Megan leans forward in her chair.]
Megan: People fuck.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Note that the original transcript says "Woman", not "Megan". In 507: Experimentation it says "Female", not "Megan". There is no reason to think that both women are the same person. 173.245.50.84 19:27, 4 February 2014 (UTC)
Correct, there isn't; however, "Megan" doesn't necessarily refer to the same person in xkcd transcripts, it's just the generic name given to this style of stick figure. Also, not all people named "Megan" in real life are the same person :P. Hppavilion1 (talk) 01:48, 23 November 2016 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from MarchMonday comicsComics featuring MeganSex