We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
575: Tag Combination
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 575)
|<< PrevComic #575 (April 29, 2009)Next >>|
Tag Combination

Title text: I love Eileen / and want you to love her / When you're around / I'm one floor above her / If you could see / just how much I adore her / Oh, that pretty red dress / I'd do anything for her / (Too ra loo ra too ra loo rye ayy)
Explanation[edit]
Song tags are a form of file metadata used to categorize music. Tags will typically describe the content and genre of the song, and many music organization programs and services will allow users to find all songs that contain a particular tag; so when a user searches for "Country breakup music," they will receive a list of country songs about breaking up.
In this comic, Cueball tests Megan's claim that she can make a song name for any set of tags by coming up with a collection of mostly unrelated words: "lesbian voyeurism one-hit wonder mash-up." A lesbian is a woman who is only sexually interested in other women. Voyeurism is the act of watching someone else do something sexual, generally without their knowledge. A one-hit wonder is a band that had "one big hit" before fading from the public eye forever. A mash-up is when someone takes two previously unrelated songs and makes a third song that's a mix of both of them (a recent example of which would be this Gangam Style/Ghostbusters theme mashup). In response, Megan immediately replies with one song title that looks like it would fit the tags well. When Cueball asks for a second example, Megan gives him a new example for the same set of tags, which is really impressive.
Megan's first title, "I Wish That Stacy's Mom Had Jessie's Girl" is a mash-up of "Jessie's Girl" by Rick Springfield (see video on YouTube), and "Stacy's Mom" by Fountains of Wayne (see video on YouTube), the latter was a one-hit-wonder, whereas Springfield has had several other hits. (The song Stacy's Mom was referenced in comic 61: Stacey's Dad).
The second title, "When You Come on Eileen I Touch Myself" is a mash-up of "Come on Eileen" by Dexys Midnight Runners (see video on YouTube), and "I Touch Myself" by Divinyls (see video on YouTube). Both of these are one-hit wonders (and can both be found on this list of such songs). Note that "Come on, Eileen" means "Hurry up, Eileen", and that "to come on someone" means to ejaculate on someone. Since the song is about lesbian sex, come on someone must mean have an orgasm while being on someone.
For other random connections see 305: Rule 34.
Title text[edit]
The title text is a set of potential lyrics to Megan's second title. Randall borrowed the rhyme scheme, phrasing, and subject matter from the first eight stanzas of "I Touch Myself" with additional subject matter inspired by "Come on Eileen." The final stanza is the chorus lead-in from the latter.
The lyrics suggest a changed relationship between the characters. In the original "I Touch Myself", the female singer touches herself (masturbates) when thinking about her lover (of unspecified gender); instead, she now does this while a new third character makes love to her beloved, Eileen, while the singer overhears them (as a voyeur) from the apartment above.
Here are the lyrics for I Touch Myself and Come on Eileen. Below in the table the mashed up lines are shown. As can be seen most of the text is from "I Touch Myself":
Mashed up line Line from "I Touch Myself" Line from "Come On Eileen"
I love Eileen I love myself (1st line). Come on Eileen (1st line).
and want you to love her I want you to love me (2nd part of 1st line). No line - the her is now referring to Eileen.
When you're around When you're around (11th line). No line.
I'm one floor above her I want you above me (2nd line). No line - the her is now referring to Eileen.
If you could see A fool could see (15th line). No line.
just how much I adore her just how much I adore you (2nd part of previous line). No line - the her is now referring to Eileen.
Oh, that pretty red dress There are many Oh in this song, but also in the other. That pretty red dress (30th line).
I'd do anything for her I'd do anything for you (16th line). No line - the her is now referring to Eileen.
(Too ra loo ra too ra loo rye ayy) No line. (Too ra loo ra too ra loo rye ayy) (11th line).
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball and Megan are talking.]
Cueball: So you can come up with a song title fitting any tag combination?
Megan: Try me.
[Cueball and Megan are talking.]
Cueball: Lesbian voyeurism one-hit wonder mash-up.
Megan: "I wish that Stacey's Mom had Jessie's Girl."
[Cueball and Megan are just standing there for a beat panel.]
[Cueball and Megan are talking.]
Cueball: Well, that was one, but-
Megan: "When you Come On Eileen I touch myself."
Cueball: Okay, wow.

Trivia[edit]
Both song names that Megan produces are in iambic pentameter, suggesting that Megan's hobby has the flavor of Cueball's in 79: Iambic Pentameter.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Heyyy, that's pretty good. 172.69.69.92 02:31, 11 July 2021 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2009Comics from AprilWednesday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganSongsMusicHomosexuality