We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
58: Why Do You Love Me?
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 58)
|<< PrevComic #58 (February 1, 2006)Next >>|
Why Do You Love Me?

Title text: Opening dialogue by Scott
Explanation[edit]
Cueball asks "Why do you love me?" to Megan, a fairly common question that couples ask each other. She responds by saying, "My heart never gave me a choice," a seemingly very sentimental, romantic answer. However, after a beat panel, she effectively kills the romance of the moment by adding, "I wish it had," indicating that she would rather not have loved Cueball.
Scott appears to be a friend of Randall Munroe. Comics 57 through 59 all have the title text Opening dialogue by Scott, forming a sort of informal mini-series inspired by him. They are:
57: Wait For Me
58: Why Do You Love Me?
59: Graduation
As there already was a comic released on Monday that week, the first of these three was released on Tuesday, then Wednesday and Friday. This may be related to the fact that this was the first week were the comics were not also released on LiveJournal.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball and Megan are having a conversation. The same scene is shown for all panels.]
Cueball: Why do you love me?
Megan: I don't know; my heart never gave me a choice.
Cueball: Aww.
[Beat panel.]
Megan: I wish it had.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I figure 95% of the population will agree with the fact that the last panel "kills the moment".
But, I think there's an alternative way to interpret this too: If Megan mentions "I wish it had" as a prelude to "Then I'd be able to give you a better answer, as to why I picked you...", would atleast 5% of the population would agree that it embellishes the moment?
204.19.189.72 03:01, 3 June 2013 (UTC) : I actually understood the "aww" as "I'm sad, you didn't really choose me" and then the last panel is Megan trying to save the day.
That is an odd interpretation. If it was a "sad sound", it would have been an "oh..." rather than an "aww", which is pretty much always used as a "that's sweet!" sound. Add to the fact that "my heart never gave me a choice" is rather sappy, yeah the joke is the mood killer in the last panel. 108.162.250.162 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
"Aww" can be used as a cry of disappointment. In fact, I would wager it is used in that sense more than in the sense of "that's sweet". -- Flewk (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from FebruaryWednesday comicsOpening dialogue by ScottComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganRomanceScottComics with lowercase text