We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
318: Nostalgia
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 318)
|<< PrevComic #318 (September 19, 2007)Next >>|
Nostalgia

Title text: If you don't get this one, don't Google it.
Explanation[edit]
Cueball and Megan refer to the practice of tricking people to see shock sites using bait-and-switch pranks. A shock site is a website that is intended to be offensive, disgusting, and/or disturbing to its viewers, containing materials of high shock value that is also considered distasteful and crude, and is generally of a pornographic, scatological, extremely violent, insulting, painful, profane, or otherwise provocative nature.
This comic is a direct reference to the former shock site goatse.cx that displayed a human distended anus (among other things). The domain was taken down in 2004, but it remains a memorable cultural reference from its time period. It therefore may be cited as nostalgia by trolls in the future. This comic evidently takes place in the future, as the characters are using some sort of advanced levitation technology that has yet to exist.
The title text warns us not to Google this meme, as it contains some horrifying results. If you ignore the warning from the title text and Google for "distended anus," you will find many results on this awful dysfunction like rectal prolapse.
Furthermore, the aforementioned shock site still exists at [REDACTED].
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball and Megan, both wearing headsets with antennae, sunglasses, and jetpacks, are hovering.]
Cueball: Darling, let's put on our best fake accounts, connect to the core ForumSpace, and trick people into looking at a picture of a man's distended anus!
Megan: Oh, it'll be just like old times!

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I think theyare talkin' bout the goatse man -- 134.93.76.3 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Yes, exactly. This is a direct reference to goatse; whoever created it sure knew about shock sites but apparently not about goatse (or didn't want to go that far). In any case, it seems important enough to put in, which I have done. --Quicksilver (talk) 20:30, 21 August 2013 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from SeptemberWednesday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring Megan