We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
23: T-shirts
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 23)
|<< PrevComic #23 (October 26, 2005)Next >>|
T-shirts

Title text: It's depressing how many of these are real shirts
Explanation[edit]
This comic satirizes the plethora of "snarky" phrase T-shirts that exist today. In the top-left, the character wears a typical (and real) snark shirt, "I see dumb people" (suggesting that the wearer thinks everyone else is dumb, while being a parody of the phrase "I see dead people" from the movie The Sixth Sense). Other shirts shown also suggest that the wearer is better than everyone else, and perhaps the shirts increasingly suggest that the wearer is anti-social moving from top to bottom. Near the bottom of the screen, the T-shirts no longer attempt to be witty and simply have straightforward phrases like "go away" and "die". These are exaggerations of the message that the other more-realistic shirts broadcast.
The final three shirts are also exaggerated shirts that suggest Randall's view that people who wear snarky shirts are overcompensating for the fact that they are already alone or perhaps putting up a tough exterior to conceal their sadness that no one would talk to them anyway. Most notably "maybe if this T-shirt is witty enough, someone will finally love me" sums up what Randall thinks snarky shirts really say. There are shirts with this or a similar message, although it is unclear whether they were created before this comic or as a tribute to this comic.
In the title text, Randall says that it's depressing how many of the shirts in the comic actually exist in real life, further underlining the point that these shirts are overly arrogant, to the point where one might believe that Randall made them up. This highlights the inadequacy of substance within these T-shirts and the terror they invoke in Randall's mind.
Transcript[edit]
[A collection of phrases on T-shirts. The first and the last on actual black T-shirts worn by the same person, whose facial expression is more sad on the last one.]
I see dumb people
As a matter of fact the world does revolve around me
I can only please one person per day / today is not your day.
You know what your problem is? You're stupid.
Get a clue
Do I look like a people person?
Your village called / they want their idiot back
Go away
I hate you all
Die.
Help.
Maybe if this T-shirt is witty enough, someone will finally love me.
Oh God I'm so alone.
Trivia[edit]
This was the 24th comic originally posted to LiveJournal.
The previous was 22: Barrel - Part 3.
The next was 37: Hyphen.
Original title: "Wednesday's Drawing"
Original Randall quote: "I saw the 'problem' t-shirt (upper right) on campus a few days ago and suddenly felt so sad."
This comic was posted on xkcd when the web site opened on Sunday the 1st of January 2006.
It was posted along with all 41 comics posted before that on LiveJournal as well as a few others.
The latter explaining why the numbers of these 41 LiveJournal comics ranges from 1-44.
One of the original drawings drawn on checkered paper.
This is one of the few, early comics that contains a non-stick figure character.
The last phrase of the comic was made into an actual T-shirt called "Witty" sold at the xkcd store (as "maybe if this shirt is witty enough, someone will finally love me").
Real shirts are: 'I see dumb people', 'As a matter of fact, the world does revolve around me', 'You know what your problem is? You're stupid.', 'I can only please one person per day//This is not your day.', 'Do I LOOK like a people person?', 'Get a clue', 'Your village called//They want their idiot back', 'Go away', 'Die.', 'Help', and 'Maybe if this t-shirt was witty enough, someone will finally love me.'
'I hate you all' doesn't exist, but 'Hate you all' and 'I hate you' does. 'Oh god//I'm so alone' also doesn't exist, but 'Oh god I'm gonna die alone' and 'Oh god I am so alone in my world' does.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
It should be mentioned that "maybe if my t-shirt is witty enough, someone will love me" is a real shirt for sale in the xkcd store http://store.xkcd.com/products/witty 108.162.219.54 06:25, 1 February 2014 (UTC)
Done. Yfmcpxpj (talk) 02:36, 22 November 2019 (UTC)
There also is a shirt that I saw once that says "See other side of shirt" or something on both sides -- Beokirby (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
These are all real shirts (or close enough to one) by the way. Beanie (talk) 09:27, 10 March 2021 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2005Comics from OctoberWednesday comicsComics posted on livejournalFirst day on xkcdCheckered paperSarcasmComics with xkcd store products