We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1041: Whites of Their Eyes
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 1041)
|<< PrevComic #1041 (April 11, 2012)Next >>|
Whites of Their Eyes

Title text: Don't fire until you see through the fragile facade to the human being within.
Explanation[edit]
This comic is based on the famous command, "Don't fire until you see the whites of their eyes", given by William Prescott, an American officer during the American Revolutionary War. His men were running low on bullets, so Prescott commanded that they hold their fire until the enemy was close enough to guarantee a hit. This was a tactic used by a number of armies, such as Napoleon's French at Aspern and Wellington's British in the Iberian Peninsula.
In this comic, Prescott carries on after his initial command, adding increasingly intimate and sexual references to the enemies' bodies, nearly getting himself shot due to distracting himself. Also, each of his remarks reference a different sense out of the five senses, missing only hearing (which arguably is also satisfied when they actually hear the shots).
The title text expands on that, stating not to fire until you see the person's "soul" in their eyes.
Transcript[edit]
[A Revolutionary War soldier gives orders to two others hunkered down behind a rock.]
Lead soldier: Don't shoot until you see the whites of their eyes
Lead: And smell the scent of their hair.
[The two others getting an incredulous look on their faces.]
Lead: And taste the sweetness of their lips.
[They begin taking fire from the opposition.]
Lead: And feel the heat of their skin pressed against yours, trembling as you-
Soldier 2: Maybe we should just start shooting.
Lead: Right, yes.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Little did they know, the entire incoming Yankee force was composed of buxom women, and the captain was proven oh-too-right. Davidy22[talk] 08:33, 21 January 2013 (UTC)
I'm very concerned at the home life of the person who wrote that those phrases were "romantic allegories". They were sexual, not romantic, and that's definitely not what "allegory" means. An allegory is type of metaphor. i.e. "Animal Farm" is an allegorical novel. It appears to be about farm animals but it's really about communism. I will edit this in 24 hours unless anyone objects. AmbroseChapel (talk) 23:50, 7 September 2017 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2012Comics from AprilWednesday comicsRomance