We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
822: Guest Week: Jeph Jacques (Questionable Content)
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 822)
|<< PrevComic #822 (November 22, 2010)Next >>|
Guest Week: Jeph Jacques (Questionable Content)

Title text: Guest comic by Jeph Jacques of Questionable Content, whose internal monologue hasn't been speaking to him for the past three years.
Explanation[edit]
The comic starts with Cueball's internal dialogue telling him what he's been thinking for some time now — that the girl he's looking at is so beautiful she seems unapproachable, and "what could she ever see in a guy like you", and typical fears that a guy has that prevents him from talking to a pretty girl.
Only to be interrupted by the girl's internal monologue, who introduces herself to Cueball's internal monologue and asks if he'd like to get a cup of coffee. As the internal monologues pair off and leave, they criticize the people whom they've been serving for so long, saying that they're made for one another, if only one of them would have the guts to start talking to the other.
The comic was guest-written by Questionable Content webcomic artist Jeph Jacques, whose romantic comedy series has lasted, as of 2020, more than 16 years and 4000 strips. The comic follows the vertical panel style typical of Questionable Content. But the art here is more in the xkcd style, showing only stick figures.
SPOILER ALERT: the following paragraph reveals some important plot details of the Questionable Content webcomic.
This comic may be a reference to Marten and Faye, two characters from Questionable Content. Marten meets Faye in QC #3 but is too shy to talk to her. Faye is less shy and introduces herself to Marten. Later, Marten and Faye are living together and have a crush for each other, but they don't get together because Faye is afraid of relationships since her father killed himself.
Guest Week was a series of five comics written by five other comic authors. They were released over five consecutive days (Monday-Friday); not over the usual Monday/Wednesday/Friday schedule.
The five comics are:
822: Guest Week: Jeph Jacques (Questionable Content)
823: Guest Week: David Troupes (Buttercup Festival)
824: Guest Week: Bill Amend (FoxTrot)
825: Guest Week: Jeffrey Rowland (Overcompensating)
826: Guest Week: Zach Weiner (SMBC)
Transcript[edit]
[A girl is sitting on a bench, reading a book. There is a tree. Far away, Cueball has a backpack on.]
Cueball's thought bubble: There she is. The most beautiful girl you've ever seen.
[The focus is on the girl on the bench.]
Cueball's thought bubble: Every day you take this route to class, she's sitting on that bench, reading.
[It goes even closer to her face.]
Cueball's thought bubble: You'd introduce yourself, but you wouldn't know what to say. Besides, she's way out of your league.
[Back to the full panel.]
Cueball's thought bubble: What chance could an average guy like you have with such a radiant-
Girl's thought bubble: Hey.
[The girl looks up at her thought bubble with a question mark over her head.]
Cueball's thought bubble: E-Excuse me?
Girl's thought bubble: I said hey. You come by here a lot.
[The girl looks over at Cueball, who is scratching his head at his thought bubble.]
Cueball's thought bubble: Oh, uh, yeah. On the way to class.
Girl's thought bubble: Wanna skip class and go get a coffee?
[Cueball is pondering what's happening.]
Cueball's thought bubble: Sure, I'd - I'd like that a lot.
Girl's thought bubble: Great, let's ditch these losers.
Girl: Hey!
[The thought bubbles are behind Cueball now, moving away.]
Cueball's thought bubble: Man, I gotta tell you, I'm SICK of being that guy's internal monologue! So whiny!
Girl's thought bubble: Seriously! I swear, he and Little Miss Daddy Issues over there were made for each other.
[The two look at each other silently.]

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I thought that handwriting looked familiar. :) 115.70.105.180 07:15, 9 July 2013 (UTC)
Am I the only one who noticed that it wasn't the people speaking but their internal monologues untill the second to last panel? No? 162.158.38.208 21:36, 28 October 2015 (UTC)
I would have thought it was immediately obvious due to the lack of a connection point (I don't know the proper word for that) to the character and the fact that the first box is fairly standard "love struck but hopeless guy thought process" stuff. Even more so when the girl is reacting to her inner monologue going rogue. -Pennpenn 108.162.250.162 05:37, 2 December 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from NovemberMonday comicsComics featuring CueballGuest WeekRomanceSocial interactions