We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
968: Everything
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 968)
|<< PrevComic #968 (October 24, 2011)Next >>|
Everything

Title text: I wanna hold your hand so I don't fall out of your gyrocopter.
Explanation[edit]
In traditional western cliches of romance, men are expected to give women particular gifts (including flowers, candy and stuffed animals) and make declarations about how that woman is the sole focus of his life. This strip deliberately subverts those expectations by renouncing those sentiments and giving a decidedly non-traditional set of gifts, but making clear that this is a touching expression of love between these two parties.
Cueball is gathering a lot of different sorts of random things, including a parasol, a miniature Eiffel Tower, what appears to be a small round bomb with a short fuse and the bust of a mannequin. He adds these to an already immense pile of weird things including balloons and a cage with a bird.
While this happens Cueball narrates in short sentences. The first three are statements that at first seems similar to what you would find on a birthday or anniversary card from one person in a relationship to another, but in this case, all the statements ends up reversed. This can be interpreted as negative, neutral, or simply dismissing the idea that ones' romantic interests should be their sole focus in life.
Normal sentence: You are the light of my life.
Cueball's sentence: You are not the light of my life.
Normal sentence: Making you happy is my greatest dream.
Cueball's sentence: Making you happy isn't my greatest dream.
Normal sentence: Your smile is all I live for.
Cueball's sentence: Your smile is not all I live for.
The fourth sentence emphasizes this, but Cueball then says that he does appreciate how this person is "strange and fascinating" like no one else he's ever met.
It turns out to be Megan he is talking about who is shown applying a hammer to the front of a large and strange vehicle while standing on one of its huge wheels. She seems to have built this giant super tank/machine from anything Cueball supplies her with, having several huge pigged wheels, a mounted gun, satellite dish, a crane and smoke coming out of an exhaust pipe at the top, implying it is already running it seems quite a disturbing tank she is creating. But Cueball is very fascinated by her strangeness.
Cueball's final statement changes the meaning of the cliched sentiment I want to give you everything. Instead of out of blind devotion, he wishes to give Megan the world just to see what kinds of things she would create (like the contraption shown in the final panel).
Some of the objects in the piles in the second panel can easily be determined, like the two balloons. But most others are more difficult to recognize. To the left there is what appears to be a cage with an animal inside, could be a bird. To the right there appears to be the hilt of a sword (maybe stuck in a stone, see 1521: Sword in the Stone). Finally the tall thin thing sticking out of the top left of the right pile could be the stuffed giraffe from 604: Qwertial Aphasia. There are other distinct things, like the tall "cylinder" and the three "cannonballs" in a pyramid pile to the left, and something with a peculiar shape between the "giraffe" and the sword hilt. But it seems impossible to determine what they are.
The title text similarly starts with the conventional Beatles love song "I Want to Hold Your Hand", but only in order to not fall out of a gyrocopter. A gyrocopter is a flying machine that has a rotor like a helicopter, but the rotor is not powered by a motor. Rather, the motor of the gyrocopter drives a propeller that accelerates the machine forward, while the air rushing past the rotor drives the rotor like a helicopter during autorotation.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball drags a small wagon and a bag full of various items.]
Cueball: You are not the light of my life. Making you happy isn't my greatest dream.
[Cueball places the items in an even bigger pile of even more random items.]
Cueball: Your smile is not all I live for. I've got my own stuff going on. But you're strange and fascinating and I've never met anyone like you.
[Cueball stares in awe as Megan assembles the items into a gargantuan, intoxicatingly complex machine.]
Cueball: I want to give you everything just to see what you would do with it.
A larger version can be found here:
[Expand]


 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
this is the sweetest comic - one of my favorites. 68.50.245.55 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
The first four statements are reminiscent of Shakespeare's Sonnet 130 (my mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun).108.162.219.202 04:12, 3 January 2014 (UTC)
I smiled at the SWEETNESS, one of the best XKCD comics.Boeing-787lover 03:49, 23 November 2017 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2011Comics from OctoberMonday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring Megan