We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
708: Sex Dice
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 708)
|<< PrevComic #708 (March 1, 2010)Next >>|
Sex Dice

Title text: You roll for initiative, and... [roll]... wow, do you ever take it.
Explanation[edit]
Sex dice consist of two dice, one listing various actions, and one listing various body parts (sometimes a third specifying a manner in which the action should be done). Roll the dice, do the specified action to the specified body part, repeat as necessary.
Because most games require the same dice, in many peoples' game collections, the dice get mixed around between games. Unfortunately it seems Cueball and Megan have accidentally exchanged one of their sex dice (the one that contains actions) with a normal six-sided die; as a result, the people playing a role-playing game in the last panel find themselves doing unusual actions.
Given the situation, it's likely the player who fondled the guard was supposed to roll 2 or 3 six-sided dice to determine the damage of his attack. The sex die came up as "fondle," while the other dice added up to six; hence, he fondled the guard for 6 damage.
The title text is another possible situation that might arise: "rolling for initiative" in role-playing games is how the players determine who attacks in what order during combat. Here, the player rolled the sex die as part of his initiative roll, and therefore "took initiative" in an entirely different way.
Typically the missing sex dice will show different actions like these: Blow, bite, nip, lick, pat or suck (from a set that did not include fondle). The other dice with places on the body like breasts might also have these options: Ass, thigh, ear, navel or lips. Other dice may show positions to use, like doggy style, or places in the house on which to perform these, as in the kitchen. It is a little difficult to imagine any of the actions mentioned above resulting in the response in the title text: Wow, do you ever take it. Maybe there are other types of dice, but they are not easily found with a Google search...
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball and Megan kneel on a bed, Cueball, on the foot of the bed, is shaking a cup of dice. Behind Megan is a pillow and the bed poles.]
Cueball: All right, baby. Get ready for...
Shake shake shake roll
[There is no frame around the next drawing of the two dice that have been rolled. The first is a regular five (seen almost from the top, but the sides with one and three can be seen). The second die has text written on it:]
Breasts
[Cueball and Megan are bent over the dice lying on the bed staring at them. Beat panel.]
[Cueball leans back on one hand while taking the other to his chin while Megan sits straighter.]
Cueball: I really need to organize the game cupboard.
Megan: Wait, so where's the other sex die?
[A Cueball-like guy lies on his stomach, and another Cueball-like guy sits to the left. Hairbun is sitting and Ponytail also lying on her stomach, hands beneath her chin. They are sitting/lying down around a game board. On the board is what appears to be two dice.]
Guy lying: I... fondle the castle guard? That doesn't seem right.
Hairbun: It did 6 damage, though.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Dice weights + sex dice = whatever you want, whenever you want it. Just sayin'. Davidy22[talk] 14:00, 8 January 2013 (UTC)
In D&D, initiative is rolled with a d20 (20 sided die) so it would be unlikely that the title-text would ever happen. Even if it did, real role-players have a LOT of dice. I personally have more d6s (cube die) than all my other dice. 121.44.164.207 10:12, 18 October 2013 (UTC)
Could be GURPS. 70.39.177.36 22:29, 24 October 2013 (UTC)
Or Traveler. 173.245.54.160 19:13, 15 October 2015 (UTC)
Or a 20-sided sex die. 108.162.214.209 22:02, 19 January 2016 (UTC)
I tried to search for sex dice and I could not find any types that would explain the title text. Taking initiative and rolling one of those actions mentioned here in this picture (it is SFW) would not give a wow response, I think. This seems to be the typical words, and then there are places, body parts and positions. But it must be presumed in this comic that it is still the action dice that Cueball and Megan are missing they are using... Also these other dice would not make any difference. Only if you are using more dice to make a sentence but that would not be clear from the title text --Kynde (talk) 15:57, 2 March 2016 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from MarchMonday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganComics featuring HairbunComics featuring PonytailMultiple CueballsSexBoard games