We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
630: Time Travel
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 630)
|<< PrevComic #630 (August 31, 2009)Next >>|
Time Travel

Title text: She also starts every letter with "Dear Future <your name>"
Explanation[edit]
Megan prefaces her statements with "I've traveled here from the year 1983 [likely the year of her birth] to say this." The statement is (assuming 1983 to be her birth year or, at least, a year she lived during) perfectly valid, albeit not very meaningful. Its phrasing implies a form of time travel other than the normal one minute per minute that everybody is subject to, even though this is not the case. This gives more emphasis to whatever she is about to say, which is instead quite anticlimactic and mundane.
Cueball notes this but still wishes that she would stop saying that as it is superfluous and captures more attention than her statement is actually worth. It would also get annoying to hear that same line repeated numerous times.
The title text continues this idea of Megan inserting another superfluous - although true - forwards to her letters. It's technically true because the letter will arrive at the recipient some time in the future, but this is not the way most salutations that begin "Dear Future <name>" are meant. Many schoolchildren are assigned to write letters to their future selves as an exercise in reflection and thinking about the future, but addressing every letter this way would likely become annoying.
Transcript[edit]
[Megan has entered the scene from the left, and has her arms raised. Cueball is eating something (possibly a bagel?) and looking over his shoulder at Megan.]
Megan: I've traveled here from the year 1983 to say this:
Megan: Are there any bagels left?
Caption: While it's technically true, I wish she'd stop prefacing every sentence with that.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Dear Future Husband...better toast it right. Elvenivle (talk)
I believe Cueball is in fact eating a bagel. --Alexbuzzbee (talk) 04:16, 21 March 2016 (UTC)
"Likely" the year of her birth? Cueball disclosed it as "technically true"! SilverTheTerribleMathematician (talk) 16:39, 6 December 2022 (UTC)
Only that she travelled from then, not that she was born then. Marty McFly travelled from 1985, but was clearly born in the '60s, so the year he might say he came from (similarly technically true, whether telling people in 1955, 2015, 1885 or just in 1986, a year after he started going to eras and returning from them) isn't necessarily and indication of his birth-year. Assuming he even has a birth-year in any given timeline...
We can be (time-machines aside) sure that she was born no later than then (...or then plus nine months, perhaps?). With time-machines, all bets are off! 172.70.86.61 19:19, 6 December 2022 (UTC)
PS, SilverTTM... Welcome to the Future Wiki. Just because I think you were mispedantic this particular time, from your other edits I can see you're the kind of person to appreciate the place. I'm no official greeter, or anything, but greetings anyway. I don't know if you've been interacting just as an IP, before today, but it looks like you might fit in just fine anyway. 172.70.86.12 19:28, 6 December 2022 (UTC) (same as the above IP, whether or not this looks the same)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2009Comics from AugustMonday comicsComics featuring MeganComics featuring CueballTime travel