We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
884: Rogers St.
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 884)
|<< PrevComic #884 (April 11, 2011)Next >>|
Rogers St.

Title text: 'We can also use middle names in place of first pet's names, but yours is something incomprehensible about dropping tables.'
Explanation[edit]
This comic is a reference to the game of creating your "porn star name" by putting your pet's name as your first name and the street you grew up on as your last name. For example: Max (Dog's name) Pine (Street name). In this comic, Randall would have named his cat "Mister" and had moved to "Rogers" Street and so his kid's porn name would be "Mister Rogers" (from the children's show Mister Rogers' Neighborhood, and previously the topic of 767: Temper), which is pretty high on the unsexy name scale (if there was one) especially for a porn actor, although it may attract people with weird sexual fetishes.
In this way, Randall has prevented his kid from getting into porn.
In the title text, he references the other way of creating a porn star name by using your middle name as your first name and the street still as your last name. Additionally, the title text references comic 327: Exploits of a Mom in which Mrs. Roberts puts SQL instructions into her son's name so that it will mess with the database at school. In the comic, the kid's name is Robert'); DROP TABLE students;-- and we are led to believe the person in the comic above may be the same Little Bobby Tables. His middle name supposedly would be '); DROP TABLE students;--, which is something incomprehensible about dropping tables (In SQL, commands are separated by semicolons ;, and strings of text are often delimited using single quotes '. Parts of commands may also be enclosed in parentheses ( and ). Data entries are stored as "rows" within named "tables" of similar items (e.g., Students). The command to delete an entire table (and thus every row of data in that table) is DROP TABLE, as in DROP TABLE Students;).
If this is indeed Bobby Tables shown trying to get into porn using his pet and street name, then he has grown considerably since his last appearance from the above mentioned comic where he talks to his mother Mrs. Roberts, the famous hacker, who gave him the name with the code. Given his developing curly hair and looks that have taken him to the porn industry, it was clever of her to move to Roger St... But that seems her way, being clever with names.
Here's a link to the location of Rogers Street, which is near Kendall Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Transcript[edit]
[A person with long curly hair is standing to the right of a hanging crocked on the wall behind him. A person speaks from off-panel (a judge of some sort, according to the official transcript). Given the title text there is reason to believe the long haired "woman" is indeed a man named Bobby Tables.]
Sign: Auditions
Judge: Seriously?
Judge: Sorry, no, that's a huge mood killer.
Judge: Next!
[Caption below the panel]
Before I have a kid, I'm moving to Rogers Street in Cambridge, MA, and then getting a cat named "Mister"
Just to guarantee the kid will never go into porn.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
In the UK, "Rogers" is also a verb. Added to this, "Mr Rogers" does not carry the same cultural references. All in all Mr Rogers sounds like a great name for a UK Porn Star. 188.29.119.251 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Oh wow, I didn't know that. Not only is "rogers" a verb, but it's a verb which means to have sexual intercourse. 98.203.241.55 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Absolutely! It's a perfect British porn name. It's a legitimately normal name, but also very clearly means "Mr. Furiously-Bones". A friend of a friend had the double-barrelled surname "Rogers-England", which is a bit like being called "... Does-Dallas". YorkshirePudding (talk) 22:13, 12 July 2019 (UTC)
To be honest most verbs mean "to have sexual intercourse", given the chance. Google it! *fnar fnar* (And most nouns mean naughty bits of the body. In fact, I've just been listening to a radio programme about (Doctor) David Livingston, explorer of Africa. There arose the question of "Is it really true that he took his wife up the Zambezi?" Momentary mental boggle ensues.) 178.99.81.144 18:58, 30 April 2013 (UTC)
That observation is so true. That's why banning words is counterproductive. It leads to people talking unintentionally about the banned subject all the time. And a hilarious example! Mumiemonstret (talk) 15:39, 4 December 2014 (UTC)
Wait, does this mean Randall had a child with Mrs. Roberts? 199.27.128.145 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
The character's hair is reminiscent of Ron Jeremy 108.162.237.64 05:50, 27 March 2014 (UTC)
Bobbys last appearance before this one was in 345 and in fact in 327 he is not seen IIRC --162.158.89.235 14:59, 18 December 2019 (UTC)
You're correct, IP address, Little Bobby was not present at his first mention in #327. HumaneEngineer (talk) 06:50, 25 August 2020 (UTC)
It's logical that he has changed, since his other appeareance was chronologically before BitTorrent was first imagined. 162.158.93.225 (talk) 11:05, 3 March 2020 (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Periodically this cartoon comes back to haunt me. Just pops into my mind and makes me chuckle with the absurdity of how spectacularly this would backfire easy of the Atlantic. It's so wide of the mark for a British audience that it's like the plot of a farce. Like...like a non-native English speaker called Mr. Inhard saying "I shall call my son Sticksit! That will mean his name is totally inappropriate for porn!"Yorkshire Pudding (talk) 23:58, 21 November 2020 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2011Comics from AprilMonday comicsComics featuring Little Bobby TablesSexCatsKids