We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
317: That Lovin' Feelin'
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 317)
|<< PrevComic #317 (September 17, 2007)Next >>|
That Lovin' Feelin'

Title text: Maybe there's no tenderness in her fingertips either, but at least SHE puts out.
Explanation[edit]
This is a parody of the popular song by The Righteous Brothers, "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'." The singer is talking about the cooling of his relationship with his significant other, and how the joy of their romance has been missing lately, and asks what they have to do to get it back. The actual first verse and chorus are as follows:
You never close your eyes anymore when I kiss your lips
And there's no tenderness like before in your fingertips
You're trying hard not to show it (baby)
But baby, baby, I know it:
You've lost that lovin' feelin'
Ohh, that lovin' feelin'
You've lost that lovin' feelin',
Now it's gone, gone, gone, ohh-ohh.
In this comic's parody of the song, Cueball decides that since his relationship with his current girlfriend is cooling, maybe he should try her sister instead. (And as mentioned in the title text, at least she will have sex with him.)
Transcript[edit]
Cueball: You never close your eyes anymore when I kiss your lips
Cueball: And there's no tenderness like before in your fingertips.
[Cueball thoughtfully places his hand on his chin.]
Cueball: Maybe I should try your sister instead.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
First! -- Kazvorpal (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
-.- Beanie (talk) 12:20, 22 March 2021 (UTC)
Third GcGYSF(asterisk)P(vertical line)e (talk) 23:35, 5 March 2022 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from SeptemberMonday comicsComics featuring CueballSongsRomanceYour sister