We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1352: Cosmologist on a Tire Swing
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 1352)
|<< PrevComic #1352 (April 7, 2014)Next >>|
Cosmologist on a Tire Swing

Title text: No matter how fast I swing, I can never travel outside this loop! Maybe space outside it doesn't exist! But I bet it does. This tire came from somewhere.
Explanation[edit]
Cueball and the curious Science Girl walk through a landscape with trees in the background and with many small pools of water. The setting of trees interspersed with these many small pools resembles the Wood between the Worlds, a meta-verse described in C.S. Lewis's The Magician's Nephew; each pool leads into a different universe — one of these is ours, another is Narnia, and Charn (the world of Jadis the White Witch) is also visited through these pools.
Science Girl asks about the time before the Big Bang. Cueball says he thinks there was no time before — which is implied by most forms of the Big Bang theory. But then they happen upon a cosmologist, Megan, on a swing who has several other theories about the universe.
Simply put, the tire swing is a symbolic representation of our universe. Scientific observations tell us that both space and time began with the Big Bang ~13.8 billion years ago. We don't know if there was such a thing as "before" the universe, or what that might be.
The first 6 panels reference ongoing speculation about where the universe came from and why it even exists in the first place. The last two panels relate to recent observations of the accelerating universe in which galaxies are now receding from each other at higher and higher speeds, due to dark energy.
The swing itself is likely a reference to the Cyclic Model, where the universe expands from a Big Bang, then contracts back in on itself under its own gravity for a Big Crunch, before bouncing outward again in another Big Bang, and repeating the whole process. On the other hand, the swing is accelerating as the universe — so it may also be a reference to the entire universe. We are all "trapped" on this swing — and it's accelerating! For the layman (and most scientists as well) cosmology is pretty confusing as Science Girl states at the end, to which the cosmologist just replies Wheeeee! and enjoys her ride with this accelerating swing/universe.
Another interpretation of the acceleration may referring to the physics of orbital motion in which a centrifugal force is always causing constant acceleration toward the center of the motion.
The title text references questions about the shape of the universe and what could lie "outside" of it. By the current understanding on physics laws, we can't see outside of the observable universe, but it's likely that the universe is bigger than this observable universe and uniform on large scale. Even though nobody can leave our own universe, Megan bets that such unknown worlds do exist - because this universe is here, and it must have come from somewhere — like her tire.
The shape of our universe was visited soon after in 1365: Inflation where we can see what the outer boundaries of our universe looks like.
Science Girl is seen later in conjunction with a tire swing in 1659: Tire Swing; maybe she is preparing to become a cosmologist herself. Also this may explain from where the tire came from...
Transcript[edit]
[A tall panel with Cueball and Science Girl walking together through a landscape with three trees in the background and with many small pools of water. Their reflection is showing in the pool nearest to them.]
Science Girl: What was before the big bang?
Cueball: I think time began with the big bang.
Cueball: So it doesn't make sense to ask what came before it.
Cosmologist (off panel): Look out
[The next six panels are between the first tall panel and a similar panel at the end. They should be read from above and down in two columns of three images. The bottom of the first panel at the top is partly hidden by the second panel which is likewise partly hidden by the lower panel, and this repeats in the second column.]
[A cosmologist looking like Megan comes swinging left past Science Girl and Cueball, who turns to look after her. She sit on an upstanding tire swing and the movement is indicated by two lines going from right to left.}
Cosmologist: Wheeee Hi I'm a cosmologist on a tire swing!
[The cosmologist swings back right, hanging in her arms with her body almost vertical. The other two also turns right.]
Cosmologist: We don't know whether time
[Going left, similar to the first of the small panels.]
Cosmologist: started at the big bang.
[Going right, similar to the second of the small panels, but with the cosmologist sitting more upright.]
Cosmologist: It might have!
[Going left, similar to the first of the small panels.]
Cosmologist: Or maybe not! We don't know!
Cueball: Oh. OK!
[Going right, similar to previous going right panels.]
Science Girl: ...Your tire swing looks fun!
Cosmologist: I can't stop!
[The last panel is again a full panel, with Cueball and Science Girl looking towards the right after the cosmologist who continued the last swing to the right from the last small panel, having just reach the upper part of the curve and has thus turned left to face them, before the swing will go down left again. The background is completely white with no indications of the trees and pools from the first panel.]
Science Girl: Won't the swing stop on its own?
Cosmologist: I thought it would, but it seems to be accelerating.
Science Girl: Cosmology sounds pretty confusing.
Cosmologist: Wheeeee!

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
See this TED talk for clue: http://www.ted.com/talks/allan_adams_the_discovery_that_could_rewrite_physics 108.162.218.101 07:54, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
The question "what lies outside our observable universe?" is pretty easily answered with a "the same stuff as inside it, we just can't observe it". The more poignant question is whether the universe as a whole (not just its observable part) has an edge and if so, what lies beyond it. --Koveras (talk) 08:09, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
The parts of universe which are not observable due to speed of light looks the same as the ones we can observe, sure. Just bigger. But there is nothing in physics saying there can't be something even more "outside". In fact, some theories consider it probable. And what can be THERE? Anything. Dragons. Possibly literally. Unfortunately, according to current physic, we can't PROVE something outside exists, much less look at it. -- Hkmaly (talk) 10:21, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
What's the setting of the first panel? Given the cosmological context, could it be a reference to the Wood between the Worlds from the Narnia series? 108.162.219.29 10:57, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
The puddles/ponds in the first panel mirror "reality", is this a hint for parallel universe(s)? Escher sees three worlds in a pond. http://cache2.allpostersimages.com/p/LRG/7/779/1X5I000Z/poster/escher-m-c-drei-welten.jpg 108.162.219.75 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Someone please rewrite my shunted in assertion about the aforementioned wood. There's a reason for the setting in the first panel, I just can't think of a better place to put it in the explanation. 108.162.244.6 11:43, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
The tire swing also evokes the cosmology field in itself; accepted theories keep changing like the swing, endlessly being replaced by the next one. Ralfoide (talk) 14:19, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
Seems to me Randall is referring to the the A and B theories of time. — tbc (talk) 14:24, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
Seems to me Randall is referring to Physics and not philosophy. -- ExternalMonolog (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)

It's possible the tire swing might also be a reference to the idea that the universe is "shaped like a doughnut". 173.245.48.24 16:32, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
Maybe it's important to note that the cosmologist is also portrayed as somebody not serious, and also doing "silly" science? A jab at the state our most serious scientists are, because we know, in a way, so little? Not sure if that's the kind of thing you put here, but it's relevant. 141.101.80.237 17:21, 7 April 2014 (UTC)
Science is fun. 108.162.237.218 16:36, 8 April 2014 (UTC)
Maybe some of our most "serious" scientists.
Randall seems to be referring directly to the discovery of dark energy and the perpetual acceleration it gives to the expansion of the universe. "Tire swing" girl directly addresses this when she speaks of her surprise that her momentum increases rather than decays.ExternalMonolog (talk) 00:18, 8 April 2014 (UTC)ExternalMonolog

Maybe I shouldn't be writing here, since I'm a new guy around and I'm not well versed in the ways of this wiki, but it seems to me that aside from all that you've said, the main point of the idea of "Cosmologist on a tire swing" seems to be a parody of the fact that not only does every simple person apears to have a definite explanation for those universal unanswered riddles, (even though "It might have! Or maybe not! We don't know!"), the scientific community also seems to 'swing' between answers constantly as they discovers new clues or evidence. And even though it would seem that having more knowledge would bring them closer to getting the one true answers, it only gets them more and more doubts and questions about the nature of, well, everything (hence the swing not stopping but accelerating). 141.101.89.206 02:39, 8 April 2014 (UTC)
It'd be cool to have the link to the TED talk or something similar about the gravity wave detection and its potential multiverse-ish implications; it seems relevant to the explanation. 108.162.244.6 04:54, 8 April 2014 (UTC)
Georges_Lemaître developed the big bang theory as a Catholic Priest, with the understanding that he would not investigate whether anything happened before that. It was a compromise that allowed the physical threory to work within the context of theology. This gave backing to a desire not to think about what happen before. 173.245.56.65 16:17, 8 April 2014 (UTC)
Although the swinging messes up her hair, isn't the cosmologist Megan? Athang (talk) 21:46, 9 April 2014 (UTC)
Yes it is Megan, and I have added her name to the explain, and it is thus also clear that it is her not Randall who speaks the title text line. Maybe he agrees with Megan (I bet he does ;-) but that is not given. Kynde (talk) 14:44, 10 April 2014 (UTC)
I'm a little late to the party, but I enjoyed (as a CS Lewis fan) the thoughts about what the puddles represent and would like to add (as a Douglas Adams fan) that the late D.N.A. has a wonderful "puddle quote" about how humans feel our observable universe was build "for us" and that anything beyond what we can see simply doesn't fit our limited view. Obscure, yes. But, is perhaps the only time my cerebrally-challenged self has had something to add. 108.162.237.209 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2014Comics from AprilMonday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganComics featuring Science GirlCosmologyScienceComics with lowercase text