We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
535: It Might Be Cool
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 535)
|<< PrevComic #535 (January 26, 2009)Next >>|
It Might Be Cool

Title text: 'And ovaries. Man, ovaries, huh?' [awkward pause] '... faithfully.'
Explanation[edit]
Cueball (or Randall) is musing about the possibility of being a woman, to the confusion of the man next to him. His uninsightful rambling would likely be unimpressive and somewhat odd in most situations, but not odd enough on its own to prompt the second man's baffled reaction. However, the true reason for his confusion is revealed by the caption: Cueball is administering the presidential oath. The oath is administered by reciting it to prompt a new president to repeat them back to him. However, he botches it completely by forgetting about his task completely and wondering aloud about an unrelated topic. Thus, the president's confused question at the beginning is not him asking for clarification; he is repeating what he at first believed to be the oath of office, but got flustered when he realized Cueball had deviated from the script. When Cueball then continues by replying that "the menstruation thing is freaky," the president is completely derailed.
On January 20, 2009 the inauguration of Barack Obama's first office took place. Chief Justice John Roberts, who was administering the oath, made a mistake while reciting the words. This comic references the event and wildly exaggerates the deviation from the oath for comedic purposes.
In truth, the error was rather small: the oath as prescribed in the constitution is:
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Due to a missed memo on the pauses planned by the Chief Justice, Obama inadvertently interrupted Roberts during the first phrase - Roberts begins by saying I, Barack Obama, do solemnly swear, and Obama repeats his name while Roberts finishes that sentence. This disturbs Roberts who was not using notes, and he rendered the next phrase as "that I will execute the office of president to the United States faithfully," misplacing the word faithfully and saying president to instead of president of. Obama repeated, "that I will execute", then paused. Roberts attempted to correct the wording, but stumbled: "the off— faithfully the pres— the office of President of the United States." Obama then repeated Roberts' initial incorrect wording.
However small the error was it was big enough that Obama did retake the oath of office the day after the mistake was made.
The title text continues the wondering about being a woman going on from the menstruation to the ovaries. To make sure it is clearly the oath mistake that is referenced the sentence ends with '... faithfully.' Thus mimicking the real mistake of placing this word last.
Cueball might be an egg, an individual who is transgender and unaware of such.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball is administering the presidential oath with the coming president also drawn as Cueball.]
Cueball: You know, it might be cool to be a woman.
President: It... might be cool to be a woman?
Cueball: Yeah, but the menstruation thing is freaky.
President: Yeah, but... the... um. What?
[Caption below the frame:]
Turns out I'm even worse at administering the presidential oath than John Roberts.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
How many life sentences has the idiot had to commute? And how long after they were given?
I used Google News BEFORE it was clickbait (talk) 19:01, 30 January 2015 (UTC)
You're going to have to be more specific on which idiot you are referring to. Your comment is kind of a non sequitur. -Pennpenn 108.162.250.162 01:55, 4 December 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2009Comics from JanuaryMonday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring politiciansMultiple Cueballs