We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
146: Join Myspace
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 146)
|<< PrevComic #146 (August 21, 2006)Next >>|
Join Myspace

Title text: I really shouldn't abuse that power so heavily.
Explanation[edit]
This comic refers to the 1980s TV/comic series Care Bears, in which various cuddly bears in rainbow colors go on missions to save the world. The characters' ultimate weapon is the "Care Bear Stare," in which the Bears stand together and radiate light from their respective tummy symbols. These combine to form a ray of love and good cheer that could bring care and joy into the target's heart. Of course, Black Hat's carebearstare is far more lethal.
Cueball is trying to convince Black Hat to create an account at Myspace, a networking site, but Black Hat isn't interested. When Black Hat gets annoyed by Cueball's persuasions, he activates his "carebearstare," thus overthrowing Cueball's request to be friends on myspace.
One possible explanation for Black Hat's odd choice of weaponry is that he is mocking Cueball. The phrase "Please? I'll friend you" sounds like an average preschooler's coaxing (along the lines of "Please? I'll be your friend!"). Therefore, Black Hat may feel that Cueball's remarks seem childish and deserve a childish backlash.
On a nostalgic note, considering the state of social media in the 2010s, Black Hat is just really good at foreshadowing.
In the title text, Black Hat reflects that he uses his carebearstare power too much, possibly as a form of apology to Cueball.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball is talking to Black Hat.]
Cueball: Dude, you should get on MySpace.
Black Hat: Eh, I don't think so.
Cueball: C'mon. There's no real reason not to except snobbiness. It's the new social scene.
Black Hat: I know. I'm just not interested.
Cueball: Please? I'll friend you.
Black Hat: Carebearstare.
Cueball: What?
[Black Hat shoots a rainbow colored ray from his chest - the Care Bear Stare. It throws Cueball to the edge of the panel, pinned to the wall.]

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Rikthoff (talk) The issue date is definitely off. Can anyone fix?
Yep, I've fixed the date. lcarsos (talk) 20:59, 28 August 2012 (UTC)
carebearstare :D 625571b7-aa66-4f98-ac5c-92464cfb4ed8 (talk) 01:21, 3 May 2017 (UTC) black hat said "care bear stare" quickly to become "carebearstare." (this is supported by cueball's "What?") that should probably be mentioned instead of just switching to carebearstare. 172.69.63.142 14:00, 6 September 2021 (UTC)Bumpf
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from AugustMonday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring Black HatComics with colorSocial networking