We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
131: Fans
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 131)
|<< PrevComic #131 (July 21, 2006)Next >>|
Fans

Title text: It's not going to break the fan, bouncing a rubber ball off the wall isn't going to dent it, and the roof can hold me just fine. You LIED!
Explanation[edit]
This comic is probably best understood by someone with young kids who explore everything in their household, and the fear that the kids will damage something expensive. Some parents issue harsh warnings to their children when they so much as touch an expensive item, which can be frustrating to children who feel that they don't have the freedom to explore.
In the comic, Cueball lets go of these frustrations as he finally owns his own place. He buys an oscillating fan and grabs its head, locking the mechanism that rotates it. As it attempts to turn, a release stub on the motor clicks to alleviate pressure and prevent damage to the fan. Cueball enjoys the clicking sound that the fan makes, without having to worry about his mother stopping him.
This shares a theme with 357: Flies.
The title text gives more falsehoods that his mother told him: that bouncing a ball against a wall will dent the wall, or that the roof is too weak to hold his weight.
Transcript[edit]
BEST THING ABOUT HAVING MY OWN APARTMENT: Holding fans in place so they twitch helplessly and make that clicking sound without my mom yelling at me.
[Cueball holding fan in place.]
click click

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Also, sticking your fingers in a bird's nest won't drive them away.Classhole 20:54, 23 January 2013 (UTC)
Kids need to realize that most parents are stupid. Anyone who takes issue with that has to address the fact that most human beings are stupid, and also become parents. And a lot of that stupidity is learned, passed on from the stupid parents, teachers, et cetera. Not only are most of the old warnings passed down wrong (you can put shoes on the couch without hurting or dirtying it significantly) but so are most of the new ones (the little bit of real science on the topic says that limiting "screen time" does more harm than good" — Kazvorpal (talk) 01:54, 21 September 2019 (UTC)
Why the " at the end of the comment tho 141.101.98.192 10:11, 18 March 2021 (UTC)
Kazvorpal is stupid. (Myself as well.) 162.158.255.45 00:50, 24 October 2021 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from JulyFriday comicsComics featuring Cueball