We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
2424: Normal Conversation
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 2424)
|<< PrevComic #2424 (February 12, 2021)Next >>|
Normal Conversation

Title text: "I think I'll pass. These days I have a hard time feeling comfortable in crowded bars with loud music and lots of shouting." --me, after the pandemic, but now for a second reason
Explanation[edit]
This comic is another in a series of comics related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Randall/Cueball has shown in many comics the difficulty of making small talk, or having a "normal" conversation, when you spent your developing years developing work skills (comics of this are here), a trait of nerds such as engineers that is frequently used as material in comics. With the COVID-19 pandemic, he feels that others may have difficulty having normal conversations as well, and so this seems to be a "silver lining" for the pandemic. He can now use this excuse instead of having to admit that he has difficulty in social situations (and always has, even before the pandemic). Randall also uses a false but plausible excuse to cover unusual nerd behavior in 1900: Jet Lag. He also uses another excuse which can get him out of life in general in 880: Headache.
In the title text, he shows his dislike, which existed prior to the pandemic, of going to crowded bars. In the future, even after the pandemic passes, Cueball will still have the excuse that the pandemic made him feel uncomfortable in crowded bars due to possible virus spread and that the feeling has persisted past the pandemic. Cueball remarked on his good fortune in 2276: Self-Isolate, as it turns out he has been "practicing social distancing" all his life, but that it has now finally become common practice.
Transcript[edit]
[Randall, drawn as Cueball wearing a white face mask, possibly of the contour-moulded type, is talking to Cueball, wearing what appears to be a pleated surgical-style face mask .]
Randall: So how's...everything.
Randall: I mean, I know everything is, um...but are you, uh...
Randall: Sorry, I feel like the pandemic has destroyed my ability to have a conversation like a normal human.
Cueball: Haha, I know, right?
[Caption below the panel:]
I'm at least glad I have this excuse now.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I told my friends that my mother tested positive for COVID-19. I noticed that I only had to say "tested positive", the rest is implicit. I think it's similar in the gay community with HIV/AIDS. -- bubblegum (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
...uh, interesting thing to bring up. 108.162.215.244 02:11, 13 February 2021 (UTC)
That's not specific to any gay community. You say 'tested positive' in any community and people will turn their heads. I guess the culture differentiates whether it's an STD or a child. 108.162.219.80 12:55, 14 February 2021 (UTC)
As an introvert, I've found that my interactions with other humans have changed very little . . . and mostly positively, as there are fewer of them. It's also nice to have a topic ready at all times to fill those awkward silences.
"Stay Positive. Test Negative." -Norah O'Donnell 162.158.74.239 11:45, 14 February 2021 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2021Comics from FebruaryFriday comicsCOVID-19Comics featuring Randall MunroeComics featuring CueballMultiple CueballsSocial interactionsComics featuring face masks