We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
255: Subjectivity
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 255)
|<< PrevComic #255 (April 30, 2007)Next >>|
Subjectivity

Title text: Or maybe the slide is like Aslan, and gets taller as I do (except without the feeling of discomfort when I reach my teens and suddenly get the Christ stuff)
Explanation[edit]
Parodying the experience of finding that things you saw as a child are much smaller than you'd perceived them to be, Cueball is convinced that this will be the case with his childhood slide, only to find that it is indeed quite large. (As a child, it's roughly nine times his height; as an adult, it's only about triple.)
The title text references Aslan, a character from The Chronicles of Narnia. Aslan is often regarded as a Christ figure, but since Narnia is a children's series, many readers don't realize this until long after they've read the books – another instance of how perspective changes with age, and of the comic's title, "subjectivity."
Transcript[edit]
[A tall slide, seen from the ground.]
When I was a kid, my school playground had a really tall slide that always made me nervous.
[A tall slide, seen from the side.]
We moved away, but the slide stuck in my memory, becoming a skyscraping monster.
[A car and a sign pointing to school zone.]
Years later, I was passing through my old town and remembered the playground.
I drove to the school to see the slide that my inner six-year-old thought was so towering.
[A huge slide, Cueball beside it.]
AND IT WAS HUGE!
I KNEW IT!

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I did the same thing once when the park was still in existence. The slide was only 12-15' high. That was huge though compared to the "kiddy" slide which was only 6' or so.
Still it was a disappointment. I always remember that thing as being as tall as the trees nearby.
These days you can't even find a slide let alone a tall one. We've lost our adventurous spirit and it starts with the children. Jakee308 (talk) 20:15, 24 April 2015 (UTC)
About the Aslan reference. In one of the later books one of the children meets Aslan and he is bigger than he used to be. Aslan answers that it is because the child himself (or herself) has grown. Any other Narnia nerd out there remembers this or is it just my memory making things up for me? 198.41.241.73 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Narnia nerd here... “Aslan" said Lucy "you're bigger". "That is because you are older, little one" answered he. "Not because you are?" "I am not. But every year you grow, you will find me bigger".” (C.S. Lewis, Prince Caspian) 108.162.219.165 09:28, 1 October 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from AprilMonday comicsComics featuring CueballChronicles of Narnia