We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
699: Trimester
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 699)
|<< PrevComic #699 (February 8, 2010)Next >>|
Trimester

Title text: Also, it's not like anyone actually calls up the Nobel committee to double-check things.
Explanation[edit]
Some pregnancies are different than others, but a universal truth except in cases of Cesarean section is that a baby will always exit a person's body through the vagina. Cueball is wearing a white lab coat and holding a clipboard, looking like a doctor, telling Megan that until the second trimester, the baby may decide instead to exit through any opening, including the mouth, anus, nose, navel, etc. This does not normally happen in real life.[citation needed] The caption reveals the truth, that Cueball simply bought the lab coat, he is not a doctor, and is either pranking Megan, or is impersonating a physician for some other reason.
The expectation that a person in a white coat is a medical expert, or at least a scientist, can be seen in the studies of the placebo effect: people who receive a "sugar pill" from a person who has the authority implied by wearing a lab coat will experience a greater placebo effect than those who receive identical pills from a person in ordinary clothes. This leads to more doctors wearing a white coat while working, and due to that a reinforcement of the expectation of white coats belonging to doctors. In some medical schools students receive a white coat as part of their graduation and qualification ceremony.
The title text implies also that in addition to faking being a doctor, he has also faked being a Nobel laureate, on the logic that people will not choose to verify this claim.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball is wearing a lab coat, and talking to Megan, who is sitting on a desk. He also has a clipboard.]
Cueball: Well, until the second trimester, the baby hasn't decided which opening it will exit through.
Megan: What?
Cueball: We'll hope for one of the lower ones, so it won't be fighting gravity.
[Caption below the panel:]
Did you know you can just BUY lab coats?

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
You don't need to call up the Nobel committee, just check Wikipedia. Also, how did Cueball manage to infiltrate the hospital? Benjaminikuta (talk) 18:29, 7 October 2014 (UTC)
Did you know you can just EDIT Wikipedia? 141.101.104.20 13:05, 5 October 2016 (UTC)
This website and wikipedia are both based off MediaWiki; also that is kind of the point of wikipedia. Beanie (talk) 13:56, 21 April 2021 (UTC)
Checking Wikipedia would be just that, checking. Going straight to the source (the Nobel committee) would be double checking... Mumiemonstret (talk) 11:10, 17 October 2014 (UTC)
If he were simply pranking Megan as a doctor, he would be checking her patellar reflexes, or looking into her eyes with an ophthalmoscope, or having her say Ahhhh while he looked into her throat with a tongue depressor. The fact that he has chosen to pretend to be an Obstetrician/Gynecologist suggests some ulterior motives. 108.162.219.171 04:27, 23 March 2015 (UTC)
You can prank someone outside of general care. This could just be a prank of opportunity. flewk (talk) 04:27, 9 January 2016 (UTC)
The use of the word "trimester" does not really add medical authority. It is basically the lab coat combined with the clinic setting. Most people understand what a trimester is without any medical training. "Trimester" is not medical jargon. -- Flewk (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from FebruaryMonday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganMedicineNobel Prize