We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
298: Tesla Coil
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 298)
|<< PrevComic #298 (August 3, 2007)Next >>|
Tesla Coil

Title text: For scientists, this can be the hardest thing about dreams.
Explanation[edit]
Cueball diligently creates a Tesla coil, a device that produces high voltage alternating currents.
After that show by Cueball, Black Hat magically shoots electricity from his fingertips. When Cueball asks how he did that, he says that science doesn't really work, then hovers in mid-air, further proving his point. There is simply no apparent explanation for Black Hat's abilities, which means science is still woefully incomplete or, as Black Hat said, simply doesn't work.
The title text indicates that this was all actually a dream, explaining Black Hat's abilities and pointing out how dreams can be difficult for scientists as they will attempt to analyze and understand everything in the dream according to the laws of science, which wouldn't apply in dreams.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball and Black Hat stand near a tesla coil mounted on a table.]
Cueball: I finally finished my Tesla Coil!
[The room is dark; the characters appear as faint blue outlines on black background. Cueball turns on the Tesla Coil and it sparks white static electricity.]
click
Black Hat: Cool, but—
[Lightning shoots out of Black Hat's hands, Cueball appears to be in shock and awe.]
Black Hat: Check this out!
[The lights are back on, Cueball's arms are raised in amazement.]
Cueball: How did you do that?
Black Hat: The world doesn't actually make any sense. Science doesn't work. No one told you because you're so cute when you get into something.
[Black Hat floats up the frame, and Cueball is pointing towards Black Hat.]
Black Hat: Still, neat toy.
Cueball: Now you're hovering!
Black Hat: I guess you're still not getting this.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I really think that someone should revise the explanation for the tesla coil. 108.162.210.102 17:25, 8 March 2015 (UTC)
Removed the redundant comment in the description about Emperor Palpatine and Superman. I'm fairly sure anyone reading this know or can at least extrapolate levitation and lightning generation. -Pennpenn 108.162.250.162 06:25, 14 August 2015 (UTC)
I wonder if the levitation is a jab at the anti-gravity people who associate Tesla with "electro-gravity". -- Flewk (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Ehh, I wouldn't say that the title text is an indication of the comic being a dream. I think they just meant dreams in general. 8:29 January 11 2023 (PST)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from AugustFriday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring Black HatComics with colorComics with inverted brightness