We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
63: Valentine - Heart
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 63)
|<< PrevComic #63 (February 13, 2006)Next >>|
Valentine - Heart

Title text: Just pretend you're kidding.
Explanation[edit]
The comic shows a Valentines card that starts off nicely, but then "escalates quickly" becoming very unromantic although probably very honest, that the only purpose of this card is getting the receiver into bed. It says that if this is not the case, if she (or he) doesn't want to go naked after receiving this card, then it is not really meant (i.e. their heart is not in it).
The title text implies that this is being offered as a Valentine that someone might give and then "pretend" that they were kidding. Which seems to imply that they would not, in fact, be kidding, that this represents their real feelings.
A funny thing is also that the text on the card implies that if the card indeed does get the receiver naked, that the action of giving it was truly meant. In that case, the giver would always deny that it was not meant and claim they are truly in love. Of course this cannot be true, since getting laid was the main motivation of appreciating the 'loved' one. "In it" could be an intentional sexual innuendo.
Transcript[edit]
[A Valentine's Day heart bordered with wavy red lace-like pattern with text:]
I want to     wish you a
Happy Valentine's Day
but unless this card is going
to finally get you naked,
I have to admit
my heart's
not really
in it.
Trivia[edit]
Similar to 62: Valentine - Karnaugh, this comic appears rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise on xkcd.com.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Writing this comment to prevent the inevitable 'first' that appears on pages with no comments. Beanie (talk) 11:46, 12 March 2021 (UTC)
Second! PoolloverNathan[stalk the blue seas]
U•T•S•c
00:36, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
Like the previous one, this one is also rotated 90 degrees... shouldn't that be mentioned?172.70.175.112 16:19, 22 December 2021 (UTC)
Added.--Calion (talk) 04:16, 20 February 2023 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from FebruaryMonday comicsComics with colorValentinesRomanceSexComics with lowercase text