We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
291: Dignified
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 291)
|<< PrevComic #291 (July 18, 2007)Next >>|
Dignified

Title text: 'I don't know, why is your beret staying on your head?' 'Staples.'
Explanation[edit]
Beret Guy is hanging upside down in a tree, usually something you might have done in your childhood. As an adult, it is not considered very dignified. Most likely, White Hat made a comment on this and the fact that Beret Guy has his head down. But then, Beret Guy gives him an answer, regarding where White Hat's head once came through and asks him why he is still acting so dignified.
Here, Beret Guy is referring to the process of childbirth. Put in the way he mentions said process, the fact that White Hat came into this world in such a fashion would be very humiliating.
In the title text, White Hat replies that he does not know, but then continues to ask why Beret Guy's beret stays on his head, even when upside down (in which gravity would tend to make a beret fall off). Beret Guy explains that he has stapled the beret onto his head.
Such a process is similar to that of closing a wound after major head surgery, using surgical staples. Normally, the stapling of the head would be conducted with anesthetic and removed after the incision has healed, and only an insane person would do this to himself. Doing this the way Beret Guy did it would be very, very, painful, and likely a bad idea.[citation needed]
Beret Guy is never seen without his hat (although it has been hidden under a green helmet once in 769: War). And later in 478: The Staple Madness, it turns out that he likes to staple anything to everything, so maybe he also stapled his hat to his head. The staple madness comic may very well be a sequel to this comic 262: IN UR REALITY, where Black Hat implied that he had stapled stuff to cats in the title text.
This also means that White Hat did not have a c-section
In the teaser trailer of Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade, Indy staples a hat to his head (or at least pretends to) to prevent it from blowing off, a similar situation to the one Beret Guy is in here.
Transcript[edit]
[Beret Guy swinging upside-down from a tree branch talking to White Hat walking by.]
Beret Guy: You were once shoved headfirst through someone's vagina. Why are you acting so dignified?

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I don't understand the, "We need a template for what-if" in the Incomplete tag. I don't really deem this incomplete, but I'd need another opinion to remove it. --Quicksilver (talk) 18:06, 22 August 2013 (UTC)
It's removed.--Dgbrt (talk) 19:02, 22 August 2013 (UTC)
Dgbrt, just Google "Harrison Ford staples hat" and you'll see what I was talking about. Evidently it was a scene in the "Making of" special. 173.245.54.62 08:44, 20 May 2014 (UTC)Harrison Ford fan
What would the equivalent phrase be for someone who was delivered by Cesarean section? Boct1584 (talk) 11:21, 4 May 2015 (UTC)
I don't think there is a specific term for someone who was delivered by C-section. How is this relevant to this comic?--Forrest (talk)11:47, 04 May 2015 (UTC)
Because they would not have been pushed through anyones vagina, and thus they could not be "harmed" by Beret Guys comment, or at least could be a little more dignified, because they had been gentle removed through someones stomach. So quite a good point there. I'm quite sure Randall did not think about that when he made this joke. ;-) --Kynde (talk) 19:29, 9 May 2015 (UTC)
Isn't the staples comment from Beret Guy, not White Hat? It has it's own set of quotation marks. --Whyhow (talk) 19:56, 9 May 2015 (UTC)
Apostrophe fail. —Kazvorpal (talk) 17:24, 1 November 2019 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from JulyWednesday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateComics featuring Beret GuyComics featuring White Hat