We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
307: Excessive Quotation
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 307)
|<< PrevComic #307 (August 24, 2007)Next >>|
Excessive Quotation

Title text: Unfortunately for her, real Star Wars fans are attracted to a gal with a good force choke.
Explanation[edit]
Megan just wants to have a normal conversation about the moon, but Cueball replies with a quote from Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope, wherein Obi-Wan Kenobi says: "That's no moon, that's a space station." Megan cuts him off in the manner of another Star Wars character, the villain Darth Vader, and showing a glimmer of the character's abilities, proceeds to choke him with The Force while modifying another phrase from the same film. (The original quotation was, "I find your lack of faith disturbing.")
There is humor in Megan's hypocrisy, however. Although she is disturbed by Cueball's unoriginal dialogue, she is fine with doing it herself.
Star Wars fans are a weird bunch, however, and the title text states that if a Star Wars fan met a girl who could do this in real life, it'd only serve to turn him on even more.
Transcript[edit]
[Outside, under a crescent moon. Megan holds Cueball up in the air by his neck à la Darth Vader using the force.]
Megan: It's strange to stare at the moon and think about people walking on it.
Cueball: That's no moon, it's a—*gack*
Megan: I find your lack of original conversation disturbing.
 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Based on the proportion of Star Wars comics that Randall has posted out of the total number of comics that he has posted, I believe Randall could be statistically termed a Star Wars fan.
Therefore I feel an urge to ask him one question: Randall, how is your wife's Force choke?Occ (talk) 05:22, 20 September 2014 (UTC)
Is the title text related to erotic asphyxiation? 141.101.98.33 10:12, 2 April 2015 (UTC)
Like in https://xkcd.com/682/ ? 198.41.227.203 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
I think that it is original it says lack of original conversation which is inspired by lack of faithOverlord of oddities (talk) 21:56, 16 May 2020 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from AugustFriday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganStar Wars