We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
343: 1337: Part 3
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 343)
|<< PrevComic #343 (November 14, 2007)Next >>|
1337: Part 3

Title text: I once asked an NSA guy whether they'd broken RSA. And I know I can trust him, because I asked if he was lying to me and he said no.
Explanation[edit]
This is the third part of five in the "1337" series. The title 1337 is "L-eet," or "elite," using the Leet alphabet, a coding system used primarily on the internet (and on early text messaging system), meant to provide a bit of obfuscation to plain text both to make it harder to read and to show off in a creative way using in-group jargon.
All comics in the series:
341: 1337: Part 1
342: 1337: Part 2
343: 1337: Part 3
344: 1337: Part 4
345: 1337: Part 5
This series was released on 5 consecutive days (Monday-Friday) and not over the usual Monday/Wednesday/Friday schedule.
The comic is narrated by Cueball as seen in the previous comic, but that Cueball is not shown here, where the man drawn as Cueball is a real person:
Adrian Lamo is a hacker known for being a threat analyst and has penetrated many corporate networks. As far as we know, he has not penetrated any government networks, so helping Elaine physically break into the NSA would probably inspire second thoughts. The use of a rug to cross the barbed wire fence is likely a reference to a scene in Fight Club, where the same method is used to break into a liposuction clinic.
RSA (the algorithm) is an encryption algorithm that allows decryption using public keys. No efficient method to break RSA is known.[citation needed] But if the NSA knew any such method, it would be unlikely for them to admit that. However, the NSA have paid RSA (the company) to put a backdoor into one of their encryption schemes.
Lawrence Lessig is a political activist focusing on copyright law and intellectual property, as well as a founding board member of Creative Commons.
Steve Jobs was the two-time CEO of Apple Inc. In partnership with Steve Wozniak, he founded Apple. He oversaw Apple's return from near bankruptcy, the introduction of the original Macintosh, the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad. But in the '90s, most of this had not happened yet. The comic is implying that it was Elaine, in fact, who planted those ideas in Jobs' mind (while perching on his bedpost, a nearly-impossible physical task for even a relatively small and light human being - such a stance is often depicted for gargoyles or fictional vampires, the latter of which are associated with nocturnal bedroom-invasions like this). Furthermore, Steve's reactions indicate that he was abruptly woken up by Elaine after she broke into his home and started a one-sided conversation with him.
The final panel is a pun on the Riot grrrls - Riot grrrl is an underground feminist punk rock movement. This metamorphosizes in the hands of Randall into Riot Prrl - who presumably prefer to code in Perl. The real Riot Prrl is from Northampton and is into guerilla knitting.
The title text may refer to the urban legend that leads petty criminals to ask each other "Are you a cop?". The bottom line is that anyone who is capable of lying about breaking the RSA encryption algorithm, possibly including the "NSA guy," would be equally capable of lying about whether or not he is lying.
Transcript[edit]
[Outside, Adrian Lamo is helping Elaine Roberts over a barbed wire fence.]
It was the late 90's. Elaine crisscrossed the country with Adrian Lamo, the 'Homeless Hacker', learning to gain entry into systems both virtual and physical.
Adrian Lamo: So you just throw a rug over the fence and... say, what is this place anyway?
Roberts: Nowhere special.
Lamo: ...Elaine, is this NSA Headquarters?
Roberts: ...Look, I just want to see if they've broken RSA.
[Inside, Lawrence Lessig is sitting at a table, Roberts is standing across the table swinging a knife.]
She learned, from Lawrence Lessig, about the monstrosity that is U.S. Copyright Law.
Roberts: So, how do we fix the system? Stab bad guys?
Lessig: I'm starting something called "Creative Commons"
Shink
Elaine Roberts: I think we should stab bad guys...
[Steve Jobs is lying up in his bed, Roberts is balancing while crouched on the foot of Jobs's bed.]
She met with Steve Jobs to discuss the future of Apple.
Roberts: Compression and bandwidth are changing everything.
Jobs: Who are you? It's 3:00AM!
Roberts: Apple should make a portable music player.
Jobs: I'm calling the police.
Roberts: Hey, idea — integrate it with a cell phone!
[Scene has two of Elaine's activities. In one she is drumming, in the other she has an electric guitar on her shoulders, one hand on the frets. The other hand is holding a laptop by the touchpad.]
She even, for a time, took up drumming, and helped start a movement among teen girls, a culture of self-taught female programmers and musicians, coding by day and rocking out by night—
Roberts: Riot Prrl.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I can't narrow it down, but the "I think we should stab bad guys", coming from a possibly not psychologically 'normal' young girl, comes from something. Firefly? Not sure, and I've not seen all of the Sarah Connor Chronicles yet, either, to my shame. Too early a comic to be Parker from Leverage (right attitude, though, c.f. when she got horribly cold-read by the fake psychic and got told what he'd done to her). But it's that sort of character. 178.98.31.27 08:14, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
-Maybe the title text refers the Liar paradox, since under the paradox we can assume that all NSA people lie which would lead to the NSA man's saying no to lying = that he actually lied 108.162.223.47 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
I noticed Randall released this comic under a license for Wikipedia. Where is it on Wikipedia? Benjaminikuta (talk) 18:45, 22 October 2015 (UTC)
Perching on the bedpost
This posture, and the whole composition of the scene, might refers to some classical representation of the devil inspiring the Devil's Trill to Giuseppe Tartini, a sonata considered as its masterpiece. 162.158.91.160 09:18, 2 November 2015 (UTC)
How do we know Steve didn’t just have really long circular bars at the ends of his bed?
in panel 3 elaine perfectly described the ipod touch
At the top of the page, there is (at the time of writing) an add about "What If? 2" and when it comes out. this is always there... exept when viewing this comic, for some reason????? -QPc_G17
Categories: All comicsComics from 2007Comics from NovemberWednesday comicsPages using the "citation needed" template1337Comics sharing nameComics featuring Elaine RobertsComics featuring CueballComics featuring real peopleComics featuring Steve JobsComputersCryptographyPunsMusicFight ClubCC-BY-SA comics