We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1142: Coverage
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 1142)
|<< PrevComic #1142 (December 3, 2012)Next >>|
Coverage

Title text: My resonant tunneling diode phone has limited range but a short enough wavelength to penetrate even the densest cages. This gives me a major combat advantage, hopefully.
Explanation[edit]
The caption "faraday cagematch" is a portmanteau of "faraday cage" and "cagematch".
A Faraday cage is a cage of conducting material that interferes and blocks out electromagnetic radiation like cell phone signals, provided the material is of the appropriate thickness and the gaps between the "bars" are significantly smaller than the wavelength of the radiation. A cage match is a type of professional wrestling match in which the participants fight in a ring enclosed by a metal cage. The comic caption is a play on the two terms, putting Cueball into a cage match in the Faraday cage that is blocking his reception.
Also the fact that Cueball gets hit in the face immediately after stating that the coverage is awful might be a joke about the different meanings of the word cover, boxing for example the word cover-up is a defensive technique, while phone coverage refers to the connection quality of his phone to the mobile phone network. The fact that Cueball, obviously referring to his phone signal, complains about awful coverage (caused by the faraday cage) while his head is also badly or not at all covered (caused by himself), which allows his opponent to strike him, might be described as ironically comedic.
The title text is a play on a rule in cage matches that states that a participant wins if they are first to escape the cage. Tunneling diodes are capable of fast operation, allowing a device to generate high frequency signals, which are more capable of penetrating the mesh openings in a Faraday cage.
Randall uses Faraday cages again in 2338: Faraday Tour.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball is looking at a phone.]
Cueball: Man, the coverage here is awfu—
[Another man punches Cueball.]
[Caption below the panel:] Faraday cagematch
 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Perfect explanation this time! 83.81.90.213 07:48, 3 December 2012 (UTC)
Why thank you! It's a great change from being flamed indirectly for some omission in my explanations. I usually don't quite get some of the comics myself, so I just create the explanation pages for all the new articles and let wiki magic fill in the blanks. Davidy22[talk] 11:36, 3 December 2012 (UTC)
I always thought that a Faraday Cagematch would be the perfect end to the Tesla/Edison feud. --Philo Pharynx (talk) 14:42, 3 December 2012 (UTC)
Bazinga!--Joehammer79 (talk) 14:44, 3 December 2012 (UTC)
You might want to mention that the "cage match" is a type of match in "professional wrestling" (the "sports entertainment" that you see on TV), not to be confused with the traditional sport of wrestling (the type you see in the Olympics). -- 174.1.228.168 (talk) 10:16, 6 December 2012 (UTC) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2012Comics from DecemberMonday comicsComics featuring CueballPhysicsPortmanteauMultiple CueballsPhones