We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
172: Skateboarding is Not a Crime
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 172)
|<< PrevComic #172 (October 18, 2006)Next >>|
Skateboarding is Not a Crime

Title text: 'Arrest me, I'm a skateboarder' is an even more obnoxious variant.
Explanation[edit]
The skateboarding subculture has taken up the phrase "skateboarding is not a crime" in protest of how many cities have banned skateboarding in certain areas, such as parks. Randall apparently really does not like these stickers and states that when he becomes president, any and all displays of stickers bearing the phrase (like the one on the locker in the comic) will be considered a felony, though skateboarding itself will still be legal.
The title text also shows another protest phrase, "Arrest me, I'm a skateboarder," that Randall hates even more than "skateboarding is not a crime."
Transcript[edit]
[A set of lockers, that are dark pink, blue, yellow, dark pink then blue. The middle one has a white sticker stuck to it proclaiming "Skateboarding is not a crime."]
When I'm president, skateboarding will still be legal, but display of those stupid stickers will be a felony.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
How would the second locker be opened by its user? Would s/he and the fourth locker's owner break the law as well as the third's? 67.188.195.182 22:28, 5 September 2013 (UTC)
I'm glad I'm not the only one. I can't get over the fact that the sticker goes over the second and fourth locker. 199.27.128.203 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Skateboarding can be outlawed; "Stupid stickers," on the other hand, are conditionally protected free speech Mountain Hikes (talk) 04:23, 18 September 2015 (UTC)
Skateboarding cannot legitimately be outlawed. That is an example of an unjust law...and an unjust law is no law at all. — Kazvorpal (talk) 04:11, 6 October 2019 (UTC)
Just a note, a lot of people are taking the same kind of stand with police brutality nowadays, people agree that it is bad, but whenever a black person is arrested most people usually associate it with police racism, even if that was evidently not the case. 162.158.255.162 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Yes, associating police brutality with racism helps corrupt officials cover up the real problem: The police brutality itself, which is part of a systematic problem. Even if the cops doing it are racist, they wouldn't dare express the racism in that way, if not for the mentality the police state has toward the people it's supposed to serve. —Kazvorpal (talk) 04:13, 6 October 2019 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from OctoberWednesday comicsComics with color