We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
46: Secrets
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 46)
|<< PrevComic #46 (January 6, 2006)Next >>|
Secrets

Title text: I'm a big fan of Kurt Halsey
Explanation[edit]
This comic addresses the issue of commitment-phobic partners who get into relationships but get cold feet when it starts to get serious. The girl wants someone who can see every part of who she is and still love her.
In the title text, Randall mentions that he is a big fan of Kurt Halsey, a comic artist from Oregon. His style is similar to that in this comic. Many of his comics and paintings depict a couple and convey various emotions they go through, as does this comic.
In the original Randall quote (see trivia), he gives a (now defunct) link to the official home page of Kurt Halsey. Then he mentions that if you had not realized he was a big fan already, you should reconsider clicking on the link because it's depressing how much better at this he is than me.
Transcript[edit]
[Drawing of a lonely girl staring down with almost closed eyes. The first line of text stands next to her to the left. The last part bottom, right.]
I just want you to share in my secrets
and not run away
Trivia[edit]
This was the 43rd comic originally posted to LiveJournal.
The previous was 45: Schrodinger.
The next was 47: Counter-Red Spiders.
This comic kept its original title: "Secrets"
It was the first comic to do so since 31: Barrel - Part 5, ten comics back.
The next four comics, like the previous comic, included the word "Drawing" before the xkcd title.
But then the last 6 comics on LiveJournal only had a title; five of these had exactly the same title on both sites, like this one.
Only 11 comics have the same title on both sites.
Original Randall quote: "I'm a fan of Kurt Halsey, if you hadn't noticed. Don't click that right now, because it's depressing how much better at this he is than me. "
The link is to the official page of Kurt Halsey.
This comic was one of the last 11 comics posted on LiveJournal.
These 11 comics were posted both on LiveJournal and xkcd after the xkcd site opened on the 1st of January 2006.
This comic was posted on the same day on both sites.
They were not all posted on the same day though.
Kurt Halsey was also referenced in 24: Godel, Escher, Kurt Halsey.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I thought that, in addition to the obvious relationship context, there is a bit of self-reference word play: if the secrets are shared, they are no longer secrets; if the guy runs away (before she shares the secrets), they will remain secret. Mountain Hikes (talk) 04:30, 26 August 2015 (UTC)
I hadn't thought of that, but it makes a lot of sense. Adds another layer to the comic for sure. 108.162.238.163 12:30, 17 October 2015 (UTC)
The Kurt Halsey page is apparently nonexistent. 108.162.216.106 05:11, 14 July 2017 (UTC)
No, but it took two tries for me to load and even then the main content seems to be broken. There's also no web.archive.org archive. Fabian42 (talk) 14:03, 26 January 2018 (UTC)
The site is now completely dead, and blocked from the Way back Machine. There is an archive.is snapshot, but with very little actual content. The best way to get acquainted with Halsey's work seems to be his books.--Calion (talk) 17:15, 19 February 2023 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from JanuaryFriday comicsComics posted on livejournalPosted on LiveJournal after xkcdRomanceComics with lowercase text