We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
158: Six Months
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 158)
|<< PrevComic #158 (September 18, 2006)Next >>|
Six Months

Title text: But then she does that thing with her tongue and I remember why I left you.
Explanation[edit]
Cueball is addressing his ex-partner, telling her that six months after their split-up, he still has dreams of their being together. In the moment after waking up, he is sometimes unable to tell reality and dream apart. However, the third panel reveals the punchline: His confusion results from the likeness between his ex and her mother, next to whom he apparently wakes up every morning. It becomes clear that he has left the girl six months ago in order to live with her mother instead. The comic lampshades at the state of emotional confusion after a break-up that is prominently featured in many films and books.
The title text furthers the joke, saying the confusion of why he left her is gone once the older woman does "that thing with her tongue," possibly referring to fellatio.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball is standing.]
Cueball: It's been six months and I still have those dreams where you're pressed tight against me, where you look into my eyes and give me that grin and it's like you've forgotten everything.
Cueball: And something in the back of my head says it's wrong, it's not like this anymore, but I push it down. In the morning, I tell myself I can't control my dreams, but there's a part of me that doesn't want them to stop.
Cueball: And honestly, waking up would be a lot easier if your mom didn't look so much like you.
Cueball: There's always that moment of confusion.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Could this strip actually be something like a well-couched "Your mom" joke? 121.222.232.156 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Yes. Yes it is. 108.162.219.58 01:31, 6 February 2014 (UTC)
Thanks RamenChef for setting the incomplete tag about the title text. But doesn't "possibly referring to fellatio" explain "that thing with her tongue"... Is there more I don't know? Maybe using a tongue in the meaning of speaking? Editors here think only about that one thing...--Dgbrt (talk) 22:31, 13 March 2017 (UTC) Referring to the incompleteness of the title text, "that thing with her tongue" has been used before in the joke/meme "Good is live, but the Devil does that thing with his tongue that you like". However, I do not know if this is where that phrase originated or if it is even worth mentioning.
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from SeptemberMonday comicsComics featuring CueballRomanceSexYour Mom