We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
152: Hamster Ball
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 152)
|<< PrevComic #152 (September 3, 2006)Next >>|
Hamster Ball

Title text: Reportedly, double-walled inflatable balls like this exist somewhere. Now to find that place.
Explanation[edit]
The comic starts with a genie, who, having been freed from a magical lamp, grants the owner three wishes; this isn't unusual, since the idea of a genie who does this is a very common trope in the fantasy genre.
Cueball asks for a human-sized hamster ball, and when he gets it, he starts to roll around in it, obviously entertained. The genie then asks what he would like for his other two wishes, to which, having already being granted his heart's desire, he states that he wouldn't need the other wishes for anything.
The title text refers to the activity of Zorbing. Later, Randall found out where to get one and went on a hamster ball heist, and hamster balls have been a recurring theme on xkcd since this comic, and 14 years later it received a direct sequel 2331: Hamster Ball 2.
This comic is referenced in 1975: Right Click, where one of the things the ADVENT.EXE wishing well allows you to wish for is a human-sized hamster ball. Doing so redirects you to this page.
Genies (or magic lamps) are mentioned in at least five other comics:
532: Piano
879: Lamp
1391: Darkness
2193: Well-Ordering Principle
2741: Wish Interpretation
In the first two, Randall manages to use the concept to make penis-related jokes.
In the fourth, the issue of number of wishes is discussed, from the perspective of wanting more than three wishes. The issue of wishing for more wishes is also the subject of 1086: Eyelash Wish Log, so it is not always enough with one or even three wishes!
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball stands by a genie, whose lower body becomes smoke and trails down to an old-fashioned lamp.]
Genie: You have awakened me from the lamp. You may have three wishes. What does your heart desire?
Cueball: I'd like a human-sized hamster ball.
[A hamster ball appears; Cueball is inside it, arms outstretched.]
Cueball: Sweet!
[Cueball steps to left; the ball rolls that way.]
[He does the same thing to his right.]
[Cueball comes to rest in the center of the panel.]
Genie: And your other wishes?
Cueball: Why would I need other wishes?
Trivia[edit]
For some unknown reason, this comic was the second of only a handful of comics to be released on a Sunday.
The Monday release was then skipped, and the next comic came out Wednesday. So this was in principle supposed to be a Monday release.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Why does this explanation assume the Genie/Djinn is Jeannie from "I Dream Of Jeannie"? I see nothing to support that claim. 192.208.44.88 19:53, 12 August 2013 (UTC)
This comic explain is still incomplete because of this inconsistencies. --Dgbrt (talk) 22:20, 12 August 2013 (UTC)
To me this is just a common Genie (as I've seen it in most US kids' stuff). Occasionally you see Djinn, Jinn, or Djinni. I think that's all there is to it. --Quicksilver (talk) 06:08, 24 August 2013 (UTC)
I edited the article to try to reflect the view that the Jeannie reference is unintended. Personally, I see no such reference, and suggest deleting the section. --Commarchinin (talk) 13:31, 30 August 2013 (UTC)
Hi
again, 162.158.2.216, please sign your comments. ocæon (talk) 20:34, 13 July 2020 (UTC)
in the third paragraph here, the wikipedia link to "Zorbing" shows the double walled inflatable balls being significantly different to the human sized hamster balls appearing in these comics. particularly, Wayne Coyne appears to use a single walled ball for crowdsurfing, both in the 211: Hamster Ball Heist and the events [~ Wayne Coyne crowdsurfs in giant ball]. so, unfortunately, i'm not seeing any evidence to support the title text being realised and feel the paragraph should be revised. ocæon (talk) 20:34, 13 July 2020 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from SeptemberSunday comicsComics featuring CueballHamster BallComics sharing nameGenie