We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
2211: Hours Before Departure
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 2211)
|<< PrevComic #2211 (October 4, 2019)Next >>|
Hours Before Departure

Title text: They could afford to cut it close because they all had Global Entry.
Explanation[edit]
This comic, as from the caption, depicts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins, leaving in their spacesuits (Cueballs and/or Hairys with helmets) to go in a NASA van at 6:27, to be shot into space on a Saturn V rocket to fly to the Moon on the Apollo 11 mission (1969). The launch happened at 9:32 on July 16, just a bit more than 3 hours after they left for the launch pad.
The joke is that Randall is amazed they manage this in just three hours, given that he himself tends to arrive too early at the airport, and since they typically ask you to be there two hours before an international flight, he probably leaves from home more than three hours before his departure.
Catching transportation from one place to another requires being there and being prepared before the vehicle leaves. Some transportation, such as public city buses and personal cars require very little in preparation, and one can leave as soon as the vehicle is there and ready. Others have more complications involved, whether it be in payment, security, slower boarding, etc.
To board a Greyhound bus, for example, one would normally need to be there 10-15 minutes before it is scheduled to leave, because it takes time to get everyone on board at the same time, stow luggage, and present a boarding pass or proof of payment.
Boarding an airline flight is even more complicated (security checkpoints, long terminal walks, more bags, etc.) making the delays longer, and so conventional advice is to arrive two hours early for a domestic (same country) flight and three hours for an international flight. Seasoned travelers can often cut these times shorter, but to be ready for unexpectedly long delays the less experienced traveler would want to leave themselves plenty of time.
Based on that, the exceedingly complicated business of traveling to space would instinctively require you to be ready much longer than the three hours they recommend for international flights, however, three hours is about how long it took for the astronauts traveling to the moon for the first time to prepare to take off.
The comic doesn't represent the preparations for the Apollo launch entirely accurately, however. Prior to their "departure" to the launch pad, the Apollo 11 astronauts had woken up at 4:15 AM, and after a 25-minute breakfast had spent at least an hour and a half getting into their spacesuits. For regular travel on an airplane or other modes usually no more than a few minutes preparation is needed, for instance, to load luggage in a car or wait for a cab. What's more, because all activity took place at Cape Canaveral, the "trip" to the launch site took only 8 minutes, and the crew began to take their seats in the Saturn V rocket only a few minutes later, at 6:45 AM. Thus they were locked in the capsule for about two-and-a-half hours prior to launch. For normal travel, people will only be in their seats for a few minutes before departure, or for large aircraft maybe a half an hour while it loads. Thus the total time from beginning to get ready to liftoff was about five hours, which in fact is longer than less complicated activities like air travel.[citation needed] However, this is still significantly shorter than you would think preparation for a journey over a distance of almost 10 times around the Earth, each way, and in significantly more dangerous conditions, would take.
The alt-text is a reference to Global Entry, a United States Customs and Border Protection program that allows US citizens to quickly proceed through customs checks when arriving from overseas, instead of waiting in a long line to present a passport. The Global Entry program also allows for access to the TSA PreCheck program, which allows for expedited security screenings, but here the word "Global" is literally true of an astronaut returning to earth, not a marketing phrase.
In the case of the Apollo astronauts, their return to the earth involved re-entry into the atmosphere (technically called Atmospheric entry), and of course global is another word for things relating to the earth. So the Apollo astronauts could be said to have undergone "global entry" on their return. The joke is that since they have "Global Entry" privileges, the astronauts did not need to arrive as early to the Saturn V launch site.
Transcript[edit]
[Three Cueball-like astronauts with space helmets are walking toward the back side of a van with the rear door open. There is a logo with text on the side of the van. The front of the van is off-panel. Above them is a time and below that a description.]
6:27 AM
Crew departs for launch site
Logo: NASA
[A rocket launch pad with the rocket in the process of taking off, having lifted its exhaust to about a third of the height of the support tower. Smoke is billowing everywhere around the launch pad from the exhaust of the rocket. Above the rocket is a time and below that a description.]
9:32 AM
Liftoff
[Caption beneath the panel:]
I know I tend to arrive too early at the airport, but it still weirds me out that Neil Armstrong left for the launch site just three hours before departure.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
... The title text isn't even a pun. Whoever wrote that needs to leave their pun hatred at the door and stick to what's actually there. V (talk) 19:04, 4 October 2019 (UTC)
Of course it's a pun. Not a really great one (imho) but a pun nevertheless. Elektrizikekswerk (talk) 07:47, 7 October 2019 (UTC)

Do astronauts get their passports stamped when leaving/entering in a rocket? It makes sense that they should. 162.158.255.34 19:39, 4 October 2019 (UTC)
I think they don't even HAVE passports and also don't usually go through customs ... however, I don't know how if they have official exception or if they technically are breaking law. Apollo 11 crew did actually signed custom declaration when returning from Moon, however ... [1] -- Hkmaly (talk) 23:53, 4 October 2019 (UTC)
Your discussion about customs declaration made me think of the story of The Bishop of the Moon. [2] 162.158.78.52 13:18, 7 October 2019 (UTC)

The title text missed an opportunity for another twist - it should have said they astronauts have Global Re-entry! 162.158.122.30 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Whut: Citation of earlier explanation: "...think preparation for a journey over four times longer than the longest of current modern airline flights" ... There are 40,000 km around Earth and 380,000 km to the Moon. So it is almost 10 times around the Earth, and no airline flies even half the distance around the Earth. Have changed that part of the explanation to mention the 10 times around the Earth, each way, instead. --Kynde (talk) 20:29, 4 October 2019 (UTC)
It may have taken them less than three hours from arrival at the launch site to departure, but remember that it took them three weeks to return to society once they got back. RAGBRAIvet (talk) 00:11, 5 October 2019 (UTC)
Sounds like a normal jet lag to me... *shrug* Elektrizikekswerk (talk) 07:47, 7 October 2019 (UTC)
I guess it's the first time where the [citation needed] tag is actually correct and not a joke. Elektrizikekswerk (talk) 07:49, 7 October 2019 (UTC)
May I just challenge "shuttle launch site". The bus may have been a "shuttle"... If the rocket malfunctions, there may be a very very big bang, so it is placed some way away from the hotel. I believe there's also a bunker well underground from the rocket that you could theoretically escape to, of maybe that WAS for the Shuttle? rja.carnegie@gmail.com 141.101.99.155 10:35, 7 October 2019 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2019Comics from OctoberFriday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateComics featuring real peopleAviationSpace