We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
578: The Race: Part 2
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 578)
|<< PrevComic #578 (May 5, 2009)Next >>|
The Race: Part 2

Title text: The Hammer + Captain Tightpants == Captain Hammerpants?
Explanation[edit]
Firefly was a television series aired by Fox in 2002. The star of the show was Captain Malcolm "Mal" Reynolds, played by Nathan Fillion.
Megan tries to play the rational card, and insist that the characters of major TV shows must get tired of fans' never-ending need to see them playing that character, and never being themselves. Nathan Fillion, however, appears to miss the days of Firefly so much that he spends his time reenacting his role as Malcolm at home.
In the fourth panel Cueball suggests they race for charities, which would mean the winner gets to donate the prize money to their charity of choice. In the fifth panel Fillion, takes the phrase and twists it to mean that the winner gets the charity. This is why Cueball says the confused line "Come again?"
The title text refers both to Mal being referred to by Kaylee as "Captain Tightpants" in the episode "Shindig", and to Captain Hammer, a superhero played by Nathan Fillion in Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog, another series created by Joss Whedon. "Hammerpants" may also be a reference to the odd, puffy parachute pants worn by 1990s rapper MC Hammer.
All comics in "The Race" series:
577: The Race: Part 1
578: The Race: Part 2
579: The Race: Part 3
580: The Race: Part 4
581: The Race: Part 5
This series was released on five consecutive days (Monday-Friday) and not over the usual Monday/Wednesday/Friday schedule.
Electric skateboards have been the subject of several other comics like 139: I Have Owned Two Electric Skateboards, 409: Electric Skateboard (Double Comic) and a panel in 442: xkcd Loves the Discovery Channel.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball with skateboard and gear and Megan are talking.]
Cueball: "Why race him?" He's Captain Reynolds!
Megan: Mr. Fillion is an actor. Firefly was years ago.
[They go over to a computer; Cueball is using a phone and presumably looking up a phone number.]
Megan: He has his own life to live, and I'm sure the last thing he wants to do is indulge a fan by playing Mal for him.
Meanwhile...
[Nathan Fillion is standing in front of a mirror in a trenchcoat.]
Nathan: (into the mirror) Name's Captain Reynolds, ma'am. *ahem* Name's Captain Reynolds, ma'am.
Someone offpanel: Nathan? Telephone!
Nathan: That's Captain!
Someone offpanel: Fine, Captain Nathan.
Nathan: No, use my space name!
Someone offpanel: *sigh*
[Nathan and Cueball talk on the phone.]
Cueball: So, how about we race for charities?
Nathan: Sure. Always did want a charity of my own.
Cueball (between panels): Come again?
Nathan: You know, boxes in supermarkets collecting food. 'Course, ought to tack up a list sayin' which wines I like best...
Cueball: Uh, that's not quite—
Nathan (over the phone): Listen, I'm the captain here.
Cueball: ...I just got goosebumps when you said that.
Nathan: Yeah, happens to me too whenever I get captainy. I cut such a strapping figure.
Nathan: Buckle! Swash!
Nathan: All right, let's do this race.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
A D&D item that my DM made: Golden MC Hammerpants. Once per day, you may challenge one person of your choice to a dance battle. You may chose the type of dance; with the skill used being reasonable and decided by the DM. The loser of the battle explodes. SilverMagpie (talk) 04:55, 15 November 2017 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2009Comics from MayTuesday comicsThe RaceComics sharing nameComics featuring CueballComics featuring MeganComics featuring Nathan FillionFireflyElectric skateboard