We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
845: Modern History
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 845)
|<< PrevComic #845 (January 10, 2011)Next >>|
Modern History

Title text: During the week, I research my character by living in his house and raising his children.
Explanation[edit]
War reenactment is a hobby in which people act out a battle from some previous time period. Theoretical "real-time" war reenactment takes this one step further by having someone act out a war that is actually happening at the time. This would be annoying for the actual soldiers, as it would be hard to do your job if someone was right behind you imitating (and distracting) you. It would also be hard for the reenactor to get to the war zone without getting killed or detained.
The title text refers to how someone would research the character that someone would play in a normal war reenactment for a more enjoyable and accurate reenactment. Once again, the title text makes a real-time version of this, having someone actually live the life of the real-time fighter. This is not a good idea for several reasons.[citation needed]
Transcript[edit]
[Warzone. A soldier in modern American combat gear holding a rifle turns to face Cueball, who is wearing an ersatz copy of the same uniform and clutching a wooden rifle.]
Sound effect: BLAM BLAM
Sound effect: KABOOM
Soldier: Will you please stop imitating everything I do?
Cueball: Will you please stop...
My Hobby: real time war reenactment.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
When I first read this, I took Cueball's statement to also have a double meaning. "Will you /please/ stop?" As in stop fighting, stop the war, etc. International Space Station (talk) 06:07, 19 May 2016 (UTC)
I read the title text as "my character" being Cueball. PoolloverNathan[stalk the blue seas]
U•T•S•c
14:58, 3 December 2021 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2011Comics from JanuaryMonday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateMy HobbyComics featuring Cueball