We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1568: Synonym Movies 2
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 1568)
|<< PrevComic #1568 (August 24, 2015)Next >>|
Synonym Movies 2

Title text: There's also the TV show based on the hit Hot and Cold Music books: Fun With Chairs, Royal Rumble, Knife Blizzard, Breakfast for Birds, and Samba Serpents.
Explanation[edit]
This comic made a series out of its predecessor as it continued the idea from 1563: Synonym Movies with a new set of movie series. As with the previous comic, the titles aren't always direct synonyms with the original (Indiana Jones as Professor Whip), but now it seems to be even more exaggerated, sometimes making synonyms of the plot synopsis instead of the subtitle ("Vitamin Water" refers to the Fountain of Youth rather than the Stranger Tides).
This set includes Wandboy (Harry Potter), Puncher (Rocky), Tropical Boaters (Pirates of the Caribbean), and Professor Whip (Indiana Jones).
The is in Another Movie title in the Professor Whip series differs from the other titles in that it does not reference the plot of the movie. The more dismissive reference may be due to Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull being poorly received by fans of the series.
The title text is a reference to the TV series Game of Thrones, based on the book series A Song of Ice and Fire. All of these titles are direct synonyms, but such that they remove most of the meaning from the titles. For instance, nobody actually cares about the physical object of a throne, but the political power it represents. Birds eating in general have a very different implied meaning than crows feasting specifically, as groups of crows only gather to eat when there is a lot of food, such as a corpse, and as such have a strong cultural association with death and slaughter.
Table of the titles[edit]
SPOILER ALERT! Many of these explanations contain information revealed during the movie.
Synonym Real Title Explanation
Wandboy = Harry Potter
Wandboy and the Magic Rock Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone In this series, wizards and witches use wands to perform magic. The titular Philosopher's Stone is indeed very magical. The first installment of the series is also known as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in the US.
Wandboy and the Hidden Room Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets The Chamber of Secrets is a very well hidden room that is central to the plot of the second book.
Wandboy and the Fugitive Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban Azkaban is a fictional maximum-security prison. The titular prisoner therein is Sirius Black, who escapes early in the story and spends the rest as a fugitive of the law.
Wandboy and the Burning Cup Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire The goblet of fire is a wooden cup with blue magical fire burning at the rim.
Wandboy and the Firebird Club Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix The Phoenix is a bird that is strongly connected to fire. Dying phoenixes go up in flames, only to be reborn out of the ashes shortly afterward. The Order of the Phoenix is an association of wizards founded by Albus Dumbledore, whose distinctive pet is a phoenix.
Wandboy and the Book Owner Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Harry's Potions textbook was previously owned by a "Half-Blood Prince." Therefore, "Half-Blood Prince" is replaced with "book owner."
Wandboy and the Magic Stuff (1/2) Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 The Deathly Hallows are three magical items that play an important part in the plot of the final movies. Being a wand, a rock, and a cloak, these objects are all quite powerful, so they are called the magic stuff. See also The Tales of Beedle the Bard#"The Tale of the Three Brothers".
Wandboy and the Magic Stuff (2/2) Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2
Puncher = Rocky
Puncher Rocky The protagonist Rocky is a boxer. In boxing boxers attempt to punch their opponent until they are knocked out[citation needed].
Puncher II Rocky II
Puncher III Rocky III
Puncher IV Rocky IV
Puncher V Rocky V
Puncher Lastname Rocky Balboa Balboa is Rocky's last-name, also known as surname.
Tropical Boaters = Pirates of the Caribbean
Tropical Boaters: Spooky Boat Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl The Black Pearl is a ship crewed by "spooky" ghost pirates.
Tropical Boaters: Angry Wormface Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest This film's villain has (worm-like) octopus tentacles growing on his face.
Tropical Boaters: Boats Everywhere Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End This film includes a huge fleet of ships.
Tropical Boaters: Vitamin Water Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides "Vitamin Water" describes the Fountain of Youth.
Professor Whip = Indiana Jones
Professor Whip and the Box of God Raiders of the Lost Ark Indiana Jones is Professor of Archeology and skillfully wields a whip as part of his equipment. Later the movie was marketed as Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark. The "Lost Ark" of the title is the Ark of the Covenant, a mythical box containing the contract between the Jewish people and Yahweh.
Professor Whip and the Scary Church Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom A direct synonym for the title.
Professor Whip Looks for a Cup Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade Central to this film's plot is the search for the Holy Grail, which is supposedly a cup from which Jesus drank shortly before his death.
Professor Whip is in Another Movie Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is widely regarded as the worst in the series. Therefore, the "synonym" is simply called "another movie" to imply that it shouldn't have been made.
A Song of Ice and Fire
Hot and Cold Music A Song of Ice and Fire A series of fantasy books written George R. R. Martin. The title is an obvious synonym.
Fun With Chairs A Game of Thrones Book one of the cycle "A Song of Ice and Fire." and the main title of the television adaptation.
Royal Rumble A Clash of Kings Book two of the cycle "A Song of Ice and Fire."
Knife Blizzard A Storm of Swords Book three of the cycle "A Song of Ice and Fire."
Breakfast for Birds A Feast for Crows Book four of the cycle "A Song of Ice and Fire."
Samba Serpents A Dance with Dragons Book five of the cycle "A Song of Ice and Fire," the latest book in the series (of seven projected) as of the time the comic was published.
Transcript[edit]
[22 DVDs on a shelf in four groups. All DVDs are labeled in black on light grey. Text written so it is supposed to be read when the DVD is lying down.]
[First group of 8 DVDs. All standing straight.]
Wandboy and the Magic Rock
Wandboy and the Hidden Room
Wandboy and the Fugitive
Wandboy and the Burning Cup
Wandboy and the Firebird Club
Wandboy and the Book Owner
Wandboy and the Magic Stuff (1/2)
Wandboy and the Magic Stuff (2/2)
[Second group of six DVDs. Five standing straight, last on the right leaning against the rest.]
Puncher
Puncher II
Puncher III
Puncher IV
Puncher V
Puncher Lastname
[Third group of four DVDs. First and last standing straight, others leaning on first.]
Tropical Boaters: Spooky Boat
Tropical Boaters: Angry Wormface
Tropical Boaters: Boats Everywhere
Tropical Boaters: Vitamin Water
[Fourth group of four DVDs. Three standing straight, second from left leaning on first.]
Professor Whip and the Box of God
Professor Whip and the Scary Church
Professor Whip Looks for a Cup
Professor Whip is in Another Movie

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I believe they are (in order): Harry Potter, Rocky, Pirates of the Caribbean, Indiana Jones, and A Song of Ice and Fire. 173.245.48.114 04:15, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
I wonder why Randall retained the Roman numerals instead of replacing them with numbers? 108.162.216.81 06:35, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
This explanation has got to have the most redundancies of any explanation on this site. It more or less says the same things four times. Those sure are a lot of redundancies. I don't think there is another explanation with this many redun... OK, OK, I'll stop. 141.101.104.21 07:05, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
It feels like Randall gave up on this concept halfway through. The last two (or three) Harry Potter titles, all but the first Pirates, and the last Indiana Jones (I refuse to acknowledge that thing that happened in 2008) are not synonyms for the actual title, but Up Goer Five-style plot synopses. --SaturNine (talk) 12:01, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
Or Honest Trailers. 188.114.97.30 23:43, 21 January 2016 (UTC)
"Blizzard" is not one of the 1,000 most frequently-used words. Comet (talk) 20:50, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
What gives you the idea that he has restricted himself to the 1000 most common words? The idea seems to be to make somewhat obscure synonyms of the titles using simpler words that would not make great titles themselves. 173.245.54.53 02:10, 1 June 2016 (UTC)
All the Tropical Boaters titles are not synonyms for the actual titles, but mere descriptions of something of note in each movie. I agree with SaturNine's comment above about Randall's ... umm ... assiduousness. 108.162.249.176 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
An alternate interpretation of this comic could be that he was stretching the concept of a synonym. A synonym can be a word or phrase and it expresses the same idea as another word or phrase. Some synonyms can be contextual only. Perhaps, the punchline of the joke is that the actual titles of some of these movies are not synonymous with the movie itself. For example, Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides when the movie was about the fountain of youth. Thus, Randall's synonym movie title rewrites are synonymous with the movie plot more than the title. This could be said for all of them so far. Perhaps, that some are synonymous with the actual titles is coincidence only. --R0hrshach (talk) 15:56, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
Well, I enjoyed figuring out what series he was referring to! Regarding the alt text, I am looking forward to the upcoming books "The Gusts of the Snow Season" and "A Reverie of the Vernal Season"!--User:Rayrox222 17:17, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
And now I need to start watching Game of Thrones with someone, if only so I have an excuse to say something like "Let's watch Fun With Chairs!" 108.162.221.116 08:39, 25 August 2015 (UTC)
Have not watched "Hellboy", have not watched "The devil wears prada". But how about "Hellboy wears expensive fashion"? -198.41.242.93 14:59, 25 August 2015 (UTC)
Can someone help me with File:radiation.png? No matter what dimensions I upload, it appears low-res. Forrest (talk)16:05, 25 August 2015 (UTC)
Nevermind Forrest (talk)00:17, 26 August 2015 (UTC)
The explanations for the ASoIAF titles were off. I fixed them a bit, but they're still not great. There's no "Battle of the Five Kings". There's a War of the Five Kings, but within that war, none of the battles involve the forces of more than two of them. Also, they aren't kings of five separate regions of Westeros: Joffrey, Renly, and Stannis all claim to be king of the whole shebang (although it isn't too far off for the other two). The way A Storm of Swords was described implied that Dany's struggles were just beginning, rather than continuing. A Dance with Dragons is very hard to explain, because the story as published does not at all match the story the name was intended for, and the only real dragon-dancing going on is a slew of references to a historical war (which is itself covered in a separate novella), and possibly the last few chapters (which are mostly setup for the next book rather than a conclusion to ADwD). 162.158.255.52 11:05, 29 September 2015 (UTC)
Now that I think about it, why do we need any explanation for the book titles at all? Randall's titles are all straight synonyms, that make just as much sense (maybe more) if you have no idea what the books are about. I'll edit again to simplify. 162.158.255.52 11:08, 29 September 2015 (UTC)
The Indiana Jones' "Professor Whip is in Another Movie" explanation is off. "Another Movie" means that the movie isn't like the originals: it's based on aliens and does not fit in the series' established lore. It only implies that it shouldn't have been made as an effect of the point. 108.162.210.227 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Wandboy and the Fugitive... that conjures some interesting scenes.
》"Harry Potter! On your knees! Right now! I'm not messing around, Harry!"
》"I didn't resurrect Voldemort!" "I don't care!" 162.158.5.136 11:46, 19 May 2021 (UTC)
Okay, so next year "Indiana Jones 5 - The Curse of the Golden Catheter" comes out! What would its synonym title be? Go! Mathmannix (talk) 17:40, 28 June 2021 (UTC)
Professor Whip Takes Another Unlucky Thing
Categories: All comicsComics from 2015Comics from AugustMonday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateSynonym MoviesComics sharing nameFictionGame of ThronesHarry Potter