We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
685: G-Spot
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 685)
|<< PrevComic #685 (January 6, 2010)Next >>|
G-Spot

Title text: The BBC lead was 'The elusive erogenous zone said to exist in some women may be a myth, say researchers who have hunted for it.' I couldn't read it with a straight face.
Explanation[edit]
The G-Spot is, as the BBC has quoted saying in the title text, an elusive erogenous zone some women claim to have that can be stimulated to enhance their sexual experience.
In this comic, a live press conference has been held due to a peer-reviewed study suggesting the G-Spot may not exist. But the press have entered the wrong meeting where Cueball (the researcher) has performed a study on solar cells. So initially he tries to claim that he has not been researching the G-Spot. But he also ends up shamefully admitting that he has tried but failed finding it anyway. That is, he has had difficulty making his lover orgasm through the use of G-spot stimulation.
In the title text Randall notes that he could not read the lead from the BBC story: The elusive erogenous zone said to exist in some women may be a myth, say researchers who have hunted for it. with a straight face. This is probably because Randall assumes that "hunted for it" means the researchers had frequent sexual intercourse.
Transcript[edit]
[To the left of the main comic there is an explanation text without a frame around it:]
A study published in the journal of sexual medicine suggests that the g-spot may not actually exist.
We go live to the researchers' press conference:
[Two reporters with microphones, Ponytail and a Cueball-like guy, stand below a podium where Cueball stands behind a lectern. Ponytail reach out with her microphone towards Cueball:]
Ponytail: Is it true you've been unable to find evidence that the G-spot exists?
[Zoom in on Cueball and the top of the lectern:]
Cueball: My research is in solar cells. I think you have the wrong press conference.
[Beat panel with the same view as before.]
[Same view but now Cueball hangs his head.]
Cueball: But... yes.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
Well, obviously nobody searched for it (the hypothetical article, that is), because I very easily found (ahem!) that exactly two days prior to the strip concerned the story at http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/8439000.stm was posted. Title of "The G-spot 'doesn't appear to exist', say researchers", intro paragraph of "The elusive erogenous zone said to exist in some women may be a myth, say researchers who have hunted for it.". So that's at least one site that can be shown to exist. As for the other one... 31.111.35.144 00:05, 16 May 2013 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from JanuaryWednesday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring PonytailMultiple CueballsSexPublic speakingSolar power