We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
769: War
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 769)
|<< PrevComic #769 (July 21, 2010)Next >>|
War

Title text: They offered to make me a green beret, but I liked my regular one. Although it gets kind of squashed under my helmet.
Explanation[edit]
This comic seems to be a parable about the perils of love during wartime. Our protagonist is seen here leaning against his pack behind a low wall, surely a good hiding spot for any gentleman with a rifle and scope. Judging by the letter he's in the midst of writing, he has a complex relationship with Cordelia. On the one hand, she's attractive. On the other hand, she's a hostile combatant, as evidenced by the shots fired mid-missive. Cordelia's fire works against her, though, as her volley of shots has revealed her own position atop the maintenance shed. We can presume that in a matter of minutes, this love affair will go sour as the love letter is wrapped around a live grenade and "delivered," so to speak. War is indeed hell.
As to the title text, the green berets are worn only by Special Forces soldiers. It takes a lot of training to become a green beret, and as evidenced by our protagonist's clever use of decoys to outwit a sniper, he may be qualified for the honor. However, evidence for his naiveté is given immediately thereafter, as he confesses that he wears a beret under his helmet — thus revealing our protagonist's true identity as Beret Guy and explaining how he fell in love with an enemy soldier actively trying to kill him[citation needed]. Then again, he does not have a choice, since he has stapled the beret on his head.
"Cordelia" is possibly a reference to Cordelia Rosalind—the sniper from the miniature game Anima: Tactics. Alternatively, it may be a reference to Cordelia Naismith from Lois McMaster Bujold's Shards of Honor. In the book, Cordelia Naismith and Lord Aral Vorkosigan are on opposite sides of the Beta-Barrayar war, and fall in love while forced to spend a week in each other's company on an unpopulated planet. This may be further corroborated by the green color of Beret Guy's uniform, which is very similar to the color used for the uniforms of the Barrayan Imperial Service.
Transcript[edit]
[A soldier is sitting on the ground behind a low wall, leaning against his pack and writing a letter.]
My Dearest Cordelia,
it has been far too long since I last gazed
upon your lithe and supple body through my
telescopic sights, and I fear you may have
found a superior vantage poin—
BLAM! BLAM! BLAM!
—a splendid effort, my love, but your shots
find only a decoy, and reveal your position atop
the maintenance shed.
I pray this missive and my grenades find you well.
War is hell.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
According to title text, this is actually Beret Guy. I kind of like this "style" for transcripts - specifically that each cell is in a "box". In this case, the cadence of the text doesn't seem to be poetic, but in some comics it could be. --B. P. (talk) 20:08, 9 October 2012 (UTC)
The comic talks about "sights" and "superior vantage points" in relation to Cordelia, where one would expect "the enemy" or similar. And this before the shots are fired. Someone needs to read a bit more carefully. Anonymous 00:16, 5 December 2013 (UTC)
Since he qualified as a Green Beret and the gun he has is not a grenade launcher (nor is it deployed) it is fair to assume he realises that Cordelia will be gone in seconds and has already sent the email.
Presumably the person in the picture is a dummy. I used Google News BEFORE it was clickbait (talk) 21:14, 26 January 2015 (UTC)
It can't be email because he was seen with a pencil and notepad writing it down. 172.68.211.226 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
I always took it as a reference to Lois McMaster Bujold's book "Shards of Honor", which involves a love relationship between Cordelia Naismith and Aral Vorkosigan, when they are fighting on opposites sides of the same war. Lois McMaster Bujold is well above the common class of science fiction author, and it seems entirely reasonable that she should be on Randall's bookshelves. 108.162.250.157 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Should a reference be made to 101: Laser Scope? It has a similar theme. KingSupernova (talk) 01:59, 13 August 2015 (UTC)
In the grim darkness of xkcd, there is only war. 108.162.219.76 03:36, 1 October 2015 (UTC)
This comic reminds me of Sniper Wolf from the original Metal Gear Solid. 108.162.237.41 12:32, 18 October 2016 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from JulyWednesday comicsPages using the "citation needed" templateComics featuring Beret GuyComics with color