We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
176: Before Sunrise
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 176)
|<< PrevComic #176 (October 27, 2006)Next >>|
Before Sunrise

Title text: It's an amazing time of day; the light is great for photography.
Explanation[edit]
This is another example of Randall's propensity towards "your mom" jokes. The second panel contains an eloquent prosaic description of an idyllic sunrise over an unfamiliar landscape analogizing the uncertainty and excitement of the life that lies ahead. This is designed to put the reader off-guard for the "your mom" stinger in the third panel.
Cueball wants to settle down on his own, but every time when he tries, he still ends up at the reader's Mom's place (as is customary in such jokes).
In photography, the term Golden Hour is used to describe the hour after sunrise (and also the hour before sunset), due to the good lighting conditions at those times. In the title text, you could initially believe that Cueball is using these early morning trips to capture beautiful photographs of the scenery, until it turns out that in fact the photos were of the reader's Mom (and likely risque in nature).
Transcript[edit]
Cueball: Every morning for a week now I've gone out driving before sunrise.
I wanted to get lost in the dark, park my car, listen to music, and sip from a warm drink as dawn broke around me, gradually revealing a landscape I'd never before seen. A chain of unique beginnings forcing wonder into the seeds of each day.
Cueball: But I guess I need more willpower, because each sunrise just found me at your mom's apartment again.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I read the third panel to mean that Cueball finds himself not at his Mom's house but at the reader's Mom's apartment. -- 216.137.28.30 15:47, 8 August 2013 (UTC)
Yes you are correct, and I am very annoyed at Randall for fooling around with my Mom! 184.66.160.91 03:08, 27 August 2013 (UTC)
I think we need a category for all of the comics that are just "your mom" jokes, there are tons of them! Bbruzzo (talk) 14:21, 25 August 2015 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from OctoberFriday comicsComics featuring CueballYour MomPhotography