We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
684: We Get It
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 684)
|<< PrevComic #684 (January 4, 2010)Next >>|
We Get It

Title text: The most brutal way I've ever seen someone handle this was 'Oh, you have a girlfriend. Are you going to get married?' 'I, uh, don't know--' 'Well, do you love her?' '...' 'Anyway, what were you saying about the movie?'
Explanation[edit]
The comic illustrates how someone in a new relationship tends to be overly eager and giddy to let everyone know about it, while others tend to not be all that interested. The character on the left is so excited to let everyone know, that he goes off panel to get a ladder and a loudspeaker. The second character thinks it should be legal to murder (or at least wound) him for this annoyance if he acts like this for more than a week. The first character is so giddy that he doesn't notice what he has done and even tries to mention his girlfriend again.
The title text describes a very harsh way to respond to this annoyance. Since someone in the position of the first character is so excited about the new romantic commitment in their life, their friend brings up the much greater and more serious commitment of marriage. If they have only been dating for a week or less, it is probably much too early for them to seriously think about marriage. The friend then implies that if they aren't already excited to marry her, then he doesn't really love her. The end result is that the first character doesn't want to talk about his relationship anymore.
Avatar is a 2009 movie that was very popular in theaters at the time of this comic. It in fact became the highest-grossing film, at that time, until being overtaken by Avengers: Endgame in 2019. It regained that title in 2021, due in no small part to being re-released in China.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball and a friend are talking.]
Cueball: Avatar? Yeah, I saw it last week with...
[Cueball walks out of the panel.]
[Cueball returns with a ladder and megaphone.]
[Cueball stands on top of the ladder, shouting through a megaphone.]
Cueball: ...MY GIRLFRIEND.
Friend: You know, if this phase of your relationship lasts more than a week, I'm legally allowed to stab you both.
Cueball: What phase?
Cueball: So, did I mention I'm seeing someone?

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
This is a reference to Shmorky's Best of Weekend Web 3, isn't it? 199.27.128.74 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Was edited (by someone else) to 'just' being the largest grossed movie of all time, when Endgame at one point took the title but it scraped its way back (advance 'refamiliarisation' ahead of the Avatar 2, 3 and 4 sequels..? the first now imminently being released, as I write this) and yet I think this is even more interesting than it merely being the current all-time record-holder. 162.158.142.159 21:51, 21 November 2022 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2010Comics from JanuaryMonday comicsComics featuring CueballMultiple Cueballs