We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
1120: Blurring the Line
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 1120)
|<< PrevComic #1120 (October 12, 2012)Next >>|
Blurring the Line

Title text: People into masturbatory navel-gazing have a lot to learn about masturbation.
Explanation[edit]
A metaphor is a comparison which may be used to emphasize, explain or embellish a point, as seen in this comic when Cueball likens himself to Michael Jordan. Michael Jordan is a famous basketball player who is well known for being one of the very best basketball players (this saying was used before in 1027: Pickup Artist).
White Hat is analyzing a movie about movies when Cueball compares White Hat's description of the movie to masturbatory navel-gazing, a comment combining two expressions used to refer to a pointless activity or effort, but also specifically self-referential activity. "Mental masturbation" and "navel gazing" are relatively common terms to dismiss work that is regarded as self-indulgent, overly introspective, and self-referential. Calling navel gazing, or introspection, "masturbatory" is a metaphor speaking of it in terms of the physical act of masturbation.
White Hat then defends the movie by saying that it is about blurring the line between metaphor and reality, commenting that Cueball doesn't understand art. To this Cueball retorts by likening his ability to meld metaphor and reality by using a metaphor comparing himself to Michael Jordan. He then proceeds to actually blur the line by throwing a basketball at White Hat. This can also be understood as another reality metaphor, passing the "conversational ball" to White Hat, or acting like Michael Jordan by playing basketball.
The last frame is also a graphic illustration of blurring the line between metaphor and reality, where a much more "real" depiction of a basketball intrudes into the colorless stick-figure world which serves as an abstraction of our shared reality.
The title text blurs the line between metaphor and reality by dragging both metaphors in the term "masturbatory navel-gazing" into reality and pointing out that literally staring at your navel is not going to be very effective at physical sexual self arousal, which is the goal of masturbation.
Another comic that blurs the line of a metaphor is 1320: Walmart.
Transcript[edit]
[White Hat and Cueball are walking.]
White Hat: ...No, but see, it's a movie about movies.
Cueball: Sounds like masturbatory navel-gazing.
[Close-up of White Hat.]
White Hat: No, it's about blurring the line between metaphor and reality.
White Hat: You just don't know much about art.
Cueball: Seriously?
[White Hat and Cueball are standing.]
Cueball: I know all about blurring the line between metaphor and reality. I'm the goddamn Michael Jordan of blurring the line between metaphor and reality.
[White Hat is now standing alone in the panel.]
White Hat: ...Huh?
[A basketball appears from nowhere and hits White Hat in the head.]
BONK

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
This comic might refer to the movie Adaptation --Mambro (talk) 10:53, 12 October 2012 (UTC)
It might also refer to the movie, "Teen Titans Go! to the Movies". 172.68.38.64 (talk) (please sign your comments with ~~~~)
Highly unlikely (at least originally), as that movie came out in 2018, nearly six years after the comic. Mathmannix (talk) 16:22, 2 September 2021 (UTC)
There's a whole host of movies that white hat might be referring to. We can't know just from one theme present in the play, as there's a bajillion possible movies that it could be. Best to leave it unnamed.Davidy22 (talk) 11:54, 12 October 2012 (UTC)
Or we could just mention the best-known (recent enough that a plurality of modern First-Worlders remember the ad blitz for it, yet old enough that many of those already probably regard it as a classic) example of such a movie, "Inception". I could say a lot more on the subject of MNG, but I'm not exactly an unbiased witness, so I'll leave the topic alone for now. 173.245.54.52 19:53, 30 October 2015 (UTC)
I don't think he was "passing the conversational ball" so much as it was meant to be a humorous blurring of the line between metaphor and reality (he's the "Michael Jordan" of blurring the line between metaphor and reality and then he has an actual basketball). Also, what is "masturbatory naval gazing" supposed to mean? If someone could explain that portion, that would be great. Trek7553 (talk) 14:51, 12 October 2012 (UTC)
Referring to the basketball's orange color in the transcript could make a more accurate transcript. The appearance of the coloured basketball in the otherwise black and white panels is a very dramatic intrusion of "more reality" into the black and white 2D panel. "More reality" since color is an important property most of us experience in our real lives. A very abstract 2D drawing of people discussing 3D movie depictions of our shared actual reality (i've never considered xkcd to reference Flatland) seems to be playing with levels of abstraction visually, in addition to the self-referential language.Rashby (talk) 07:07, 15 November 2012 (UTC)
Wow! Really?
Is sexual self arousal the goal of masturbation? I used Google News BEFORE it was clickbait (talk) 17:33, 20 January 2015 (UTC)
Yes. Entirely so. I mean, literally what other function could it have? -Pennpenn 108.162.250.155 03:07, 13 April 2016 (UTC)
"Masturbatory navel gazing" is a contradiction in terms, hence the cursor text.
From Merriam-Webster: Naval-gazing is useless or excessive self-contemplation. One could define a movie about movies in this way. Masturbation is self-love, and a movie about movies could be thought of as a form of self love too. --Johngardner (talk) 15:44, 12 October 2012 (UTC)
Time to add absolutely nothing to anything.
b0nk
There we go. Beanie (talk) 13:20, 19 May 2021 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2012Comics from OctoberFriday comicsComics featuring CueballComics featuring White HatComics with colorLanguageBasketball