We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
682: Force
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 682)
|<< PrevComic #682 (December 30, 2009)Next >>|
Force

Title text: Force-choking the chicken.
Explanation[edit]
This comic features Darth Vader, the main antagonist from the original Star Wars trilogy.
Autoerotic asphyxiation is a sexual practice in which lack of oxygen is induced to enhance sexual stimulus. The technique is considered extremely dangerous, especially without supervision, as loss of consciousness can result in continued strangling which can quickly be fatal.
In the films, Vader possesses the ability to restrict the airway of anyone without having to touch them, using only the so-called "force". This practice has therefore been called force-choking. The comic assumes that Vader used this technique against himself, with the help of a mirror, in order to become sexually aroused.
Lord Vader has apparently force-choked himself to the point of unconsciousness (or possibly even death) and is being transported from his house on a stretcher by two Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs).
The title text is a pun on the term "choking the chicken", a colloquial expression referring to male masturbation. "Force-choking the chicken" might mean a technique of self-gratification by use of the "force" without having to apply one's hands.
Transcript[edit]
[Two EMTs are rushing Darth Vader away from a front door on a stretcher.]
[There is a room with a desk in the foreground and a full-length mirror in the corner. On the desk is a laptop displaying the Wikipedia page for autoerotic asphyxiation.]
Trivia[edit]
The sexual potential of the force choke was already explored in the title text of 307: Excessive Quotation.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
"I find your lack of length disturbing"Jakee308 (talk) 18:32, 8 June 2015 (UTC)
The explanation describes that some arrangements allow strangulation to continue after loss of conciousness but the use of the force is explicitly fuelled by willpower so how could Vader still be under for so long after going under unless he was too forceful and broke his neck? 172.70.189.77 16:12, 12 April 2023 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2009Comics from DecemberWednesday comicsSexStar WarsWikipedia