We still need to complete some explanations like this one: 1608: Hoverboard. All incomplete explanations are here.
Never use the Math markup language at the transcript. The reason for this you can read at the Editor FAQ.
93: Jeremy Irons
Explain xkcd: It's 'cause you're dumb.
(Redirected from 93)
|<< PrevComic #93 (April 24, 2006)Next >>|
Jeremy Irons

Title text: Movies that I know word-for-word, part one
Explanation[edit]
Similar to the "My Hobby" series, this comic depicts one of Randall's goals in life: He wants to hire Academy-Award-winning actor Jeremy Irons to deliver all of Randall's dialogue in life (while Randall, perhaps, lip syncs it). He is apparently basing this desire on the fact that Irons, a classically trained English actor, portrayed Scar, the main antagonist in the 1994 Disney animated feature The Lion King.
The line spoken in the comic is from the song "Be Prepared", which Scar sings in the film. Thus, it's not entirely clear whether Randall enjoys Irons's deep, rumbling British-accented voice, or whether it's Scar's dialogue in the film that Randall truly would like to be speaking.
The title text suggests that Randall knows the dialogue of The Lion King from memory; it also suggests that there are others he knows as well. He is around the appropriate age to have been in the target market for the film (he would have been around 10 at the time) and probably saw it many times.
Transcript[edit]
[Cueball points at Megan with his mouth open. Jeremy Irons stands behind him.]
Jeremy Irons: But as THICK as you are, pay attention
Jeremy Irons: My words are a matter of PRIDE!
My goal: To make enough money to hire Jeremy Irons, the voice of Scar from The Lion King, to follow me around and do my dialogue.
Trivia[edit]
Jeremy Irons' dialog in this comic is a direct quote of the song "Be Prepared" from The Lion King.

 add a comment! ⋅  add a topic (use sparingly)! ⋅  refresh comments!
Discussion
I don't think the words that are bolded in the transcript are meant to be that way. In earlier comics, such as this, the writing wasn't as neat. I think the bold should be taken off. 173.245.54.175 01:14, 28 September 2014 (UTC)
I checked the comic, and I believe that you are right. I changed the transcript. If anyone more experienced than I feels that I did so wrongly, then feel free to revert the page. Educatedtiger(talk) 09:38, 14 November 2014 (UTC)
Categories: All comicsComics from 2006Comics from AprilMonday comicsComics featuring MeganComics featuring CueballComics featuring real peopleThe Lion KingComics with lowercase text